1 hour video that explains NAPOT the central thesis of Self Aware Networks
Jul 31, 2022
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fLp-yTQ6pSM

Alright, hi. Uh so, this is Michael Bloomberg again and I wanted to show you, I wanted to I'm creating a new note for today. I'll probably be a new video every day but I'm going to explain more about what this is and as I explain this, I'm going to be putting the book together. So, the central thesis of Self Aware Networks is NAPOT or NAPOT is neuro array projection, oscillation, tomography. Um it means that, okay. So, This note that I'm sharing today is located at GitHub dot V five MA in the Self Aware Networks repo. So, let me go. I'm going to go ahead and show you how to get there. So, let's go ahead and open up a new window. So, if you go to Self Aware Neural Networks. com. Actually, I don't I don't remember what it's going to. It's going to say it's not secure but it's going to take a big good hub and you click on self-ware networks repo which is the popular right now. So, if I go back, you can see it. So, popular. If you don't see it here, click on repositories and click on Self Aware Networks, okay? So, the new one, the new note that I'm sharing today is the maps. So, the maps are going to be different from the rest of the notes. They're going to have, they're going to be part of the, they're going to be backups for the Wiki pages. So, if you click on the Wiki, you can see there's this and then if you click on like one of these lakes. So, here's, this one says start dot intro dot fractal. So, if you click on that, it takes you to a different wiki page which is which is a collection of, it's going to be a collection of all the notes on fractals which is important but I'll have to explain why it's important later. There's a lot of you know, it's about scaling. It's about how the the part about fractals is dives backs up the research that I've done into how your how a memory that's stored in this synaptic connections of a single neuron scales to the whole brain. That's an important thing to think about because if if it's true that you know, he'd been learning is that your memories form when when cells sells I guess the the popular phrase. It's not actually from Donald Heb is that one cells wired together is when cells fire together, they wire together but we're talking about when we talk about cells, it's like a really tiny little thing that you can, neurons can be really small and so, how is it that a memory at the scale the neuron can can be something that can be activated and retrieved by your entire mind. It has the memory has to actually scale up and I have a theory for how it that happens which is like there's no noone else has a theory for how this happens. Um so, I mean, like just the fact that there's noone else who has a theory like this and I've got tons of theories that are completely novel. They just don't exist anywhere else. And that's that by itself should should cause this project to get massive attention but I I still have to explain it to people. So, I just don't have to like improve the presentation. So, that's part of what I'm doing with these videos. It's explaining exactly why this project should have massive attention. So, let me go back to, so to get to NAPOT, what you gotta do is you, it's going to be, it's going to be one of these links, you know, like the start, like, in the Wiki eventually. So, all the maps are going to be stored in the Wiki, but for now, if you go to the stuff Aware Networks Repo, which is going to be here, or you basically from the main page, you go here, remember I showed you, and then you go down to you can just scroll all the way down. Or see where is it? Actually, so all the way down. In the map, so this is map dot NAPOT. ND and you can just click on that. That pulls us up. Another way to do it is you can just go back and you just do control F on your keyboard Or command F on your keyboard and just type in map. dot NAPOT and that pulls it up and another thing you can do is you can You can go here to search and type a map dot NAPOT and then search in this repository That also will pull up. It will search for what's in the note. So, that pulls up this and so that gets you. There's a three ways to get here. Okay, so then this explains what NAPOT is. It's neuro oscitory neuro array projection oscitory tomography. So, your neurons, they're not, they have, they have sensors. They're like in something that has to have a, it's a sensor and a transmitter but it's also a it considers what's being sent because there are thresholds for for whether it's what kind of transmission that neuron is going to pass onwards. The neuron is firing on a regular basis. It's firing in a tonic way but if it enough signals that overload its activity faster than normal than it's going to fire faster than normal. Um and or or maybe it maybe it's going to be flooded and it will be inhibited from firing. So it may fire slower than normal. It's output can can vary in terms of like how many neurotransmitters are released. And this information is covered in my notes. But let me stick to it. The most important stuff for now and that's important stuff also but so NAPOT is a theory from which existing artificial neural network architectures can be adapted to become sentient or conscious or what I call self-aware neural networks. This means that we can adapt the artificial neural networks that we that are popular today like deep neuron networks or graff neural networks. We can adapt them. We can change them so they become conscious or sentient or self aware. Sentient and self aware. There's a different things. tinting and software Um Neural Networks or Conscious and Self Aware Neural Networks and the the the theory, what I'm proposing is what NAPOT is, it is a theory that is going to back the creation of code that or the code changes we need need to make to existing artificial neural networks so that our artificial neural networks become conscious and self aware animals or people and so this this theory is exactly for how we can make robots that have internal representations, internal thoughts, feelings, images, sounds, tastes, smells, and animal or human level experiences and so on. It's not just how the brain perceives its own representations. It's also about is not just how the brain and procedures and loan representation. It's also how memory scale from synaptic connections at the cell level to the whole brain. Um it's also about how information flows through the mind and how it's connected to in the networks with the brain via oscillations. How it goes from oscillating activity into the actual picture of what you see through tomography. So, I wrote down neuro oscillatory tomography. So, I wrote down in the notes to see how it differs. So, in my notes, I, there's, I contrast it with deep neural networks and graph neural networks. There's other types of neural networks that I need to distinguish it from. Um I'm essentially like the part of the idea comes from the four-year projection slice theorem, okay? So, you notice that neural array projection shares the word project in common with the foyer foyer projection slice theorem. That's not a coincidence. That is part of the inspiration for the Neural Array Projection. Oscillation. Tomography. The four year projections lies through. So you can look that up. Um and so you want to think about this. Think about the brain as like a neural network. There's examples of artificial neural networks out there that are doing that are rendering amazing pictures and those, you could, you can look up, you go on Twitter, you can look up Nerf, N E R F, or Planoxyls, it's spelled right here. Uh, Gansynthesis, there's GP3 and GP four, you look at the avocado chair, it's scan synthesis, that's when the neural network renders something, you can look at internal network, interpolation, you can look up point renderings On Neural Network rendering And then imagine your brain is doing rendering but not just that. Your brain also has to identify objects and separate. What is what is this object versus this object? How how is this glasses? How are these glasses different from the environment? That's called the object segmentation and and and to say all the points that belong to these glasses are glasses and all the points that belong to this hat are is a hat that is it's called semantic segmentation or or a classification with object segmentation. So, we have these concepts and you have to imagine your brain kind of has to do both operations. It may not do it exactly the same, definitely doesn't do it exactly the same as a as a 3-D semantic segmentation. There's a really big differences. But I get into those differences in in the sophomore networks but you can imagine these analogies. If an artificial neural network can do 3D semantic segmentation and distinguish one object from another object, why can't your brain? Right? Yeah. But which is much more capable, much more powerful. Um neural network than than what's in what's in the computer. So here so these links so this so this note is primary map of links that that you can read that are related you know because because my because there are hundreds of notes and so I've distilled which of the notes are probably the most important to the core topic core thesis of my book which is Neural Array Projection Oscillation Tomography and or I I sometimes I just say Neural Neural Array Projection tomography or neuro oscillatory tomography for short but the so we've got this note it's number 149 on 3D faced apology over time as imagine is imagined as tensors and high-dimensional tailor series that's one of my favorite notes. Um The number is 616 and I can probably remove these two. These are just backups of the table contents. Not that important. It's right now. Later on, it's it's so here we here we go. We've got the software networks, the scope of the book. Explains it. Uh note number thirty-eight B thirty-eight because there's there's there's A series notes and it's B series notes. Number B thirty-eight, Uh the nonlinear sequence of access is just a quote from that note. Nonlinear sequence of action potentials events. Neural array projection tomography could be considered as intervals in the tailor series of polynomials polynomials. We still have talked there but that's one of the newer notes. Um I see missing a phrase. Here's another phrase, pattern collecting sensor rays that pass information patterns virtually along specific paths in a conscious entity. So, the big part of this is about arrays, sending information to others. One array, one nerd array. can, it's basically sending out a pattern that other arrays receive. So, your eyes, so your eyes, the gingly neurons in in your eyes, they're going to or in your ears or in your, you know, like the scent, those are sensory input areas and they receive information from the outside world and that first layer is going to render an array of information like a TV screen for the layer behind it and then, that's going to pass on information to another part of to another part of your brain and to another of of of arrays or to another, I'm sorry, I'm sort of using array and layer interchangeably. You know, in in deep neural networks, we have layers. In the brain, we have a rays but basically, these are an array can be as simple as basically, you, a neuron is projecting outwards. It whatever it out it outputs, it's neurotransmitters. That's not going to just one other neuron. It's going to an array because it outputs like a fan. It outputs it's it's you know, like the the inputs of a neuron is like, there's all these different inputs. That's a dentrite and the outputs fan So, it's like the information comes in, it gets calculated, and then it goes out again, right? It's like, you know, it's, it's this branching thing on two ends and so, you have this exit terminal, right? And and so, when it goes out, it's sending the output of that one neuron is going out to an array and and it's kind of like, I imagine it's like, it's creating it, a signal variation, in terms of like, what it's sending and how frequently it's sending. Uh say the quantity of neurotransmitters that it's ending and the this this was the it's like the magnitude and the frequency and there there's an inverse relationship between the quantity of neurotransmitters that meet that are being sent and the frequency that are being sent. And the interplay of all the different in in the race in the so they raise so you have the first layer which your sensory input and the right the array that receives that sensory input and the behind that is receiving a bunch of data from a lot of different neurons in the first array and but I I would like to imagine is I can imagine that your brain has to has to it's like you there is a picture that that is being sent to your eyes. It's sort of rendered and then that first sensor array is receiving that picture and then it's creating a picture in terms of in terms of converting that information into face signals that have a duration and and or a magnitude and frequency and that's sending that information to the next race. So, imagine that the first array the visual cortex is is like a it's like the it's like the input to a computer screen and the and then the it's like the input to a computer and then what it sends out to the subsequent array is like the LEDs is like a TV screen. To the next array. And the next ray receives that picture. It sees that picture and then it creates its own image for the brain behind it. So it's like it's like it's like a ma in an eyeball. Imagine every neuron is an eyeball with an LED. So, it sees the information from the previous array and then it transmits a little LED light to the next array. Now, I'm not I'm not saying exactly an LED light but I'm saying it's like, it's a signal, right? You can think of it as an LED light or like the pixels. Imagine that the neural array is like the pixels on your TV screen. And that's the, that's the key idea of of, pattern collecting sensor arrays that pass information patterns along specific paths Um here we've got tonic waves that set our unconscious expectations. So we have neurons that fire and then the the decay rate of that firing sets the causes inhibitory waves to be set like the timing of inhemitory waves. So that one neuron fires hits all of the neurons in its exit terminal. So it's like one neurofires hits the neurons and the exit terminal and causes them to be inhibited and changes their timing relative to their regular tonic firing. Now, they've been slowed down. and that if you look at the you know, how that is going to cause the whole oscillator, oscillating group of cells to notice and that's true because of how oscillations work and that's part of this work that connects to Stephen Strogas' work on on in his book, Sync, is that if you have, you know, if you have like a a group of fireflies, if if they all act as a single sensor together. If one of them It's it's the same principle of like if you have two clocks and one clock if you is a is going to you know if it's if it's able to basically send a signal to another clock eventually the two clocks are going to start to synchronize or eventually going to you know they can start off in very different you know, like two metronome clocks. You put them next to each other. Eventually, no matter, you know, when you start one versus the other, they start to synchronize and the same thing is with, you know, why do fireflies sort of like synchronize? These are the physics of oscillation. And so, this, the physics of oscillation allow your action potentials to cause inhibitory effects that the whole cell assembly will feel. It allows your cells to basically act as a single sensor. Your body becomes an antiphide sensor. Um that can basically bind together sensory information on a collective scale because the incoming signals are felt by the entire network. They're passed along that they're dissipated the entire oscillating cell assembly. So, so signals are dissipated everywhere So, there's another note how to make dog level sentient neural networks. That one's a this one. That's a fun one. It's a newer one. Uh the biggest failure. So, I I argue the biggest misstep is probably change, change it from failure to misstep. It's it's it's a hard argument that might get some pushback back, a little bit of push back but I think I'm right. So, basically, the action potential has been defined as an all-or-nothing event which is which is If you're just considering amplitude, that's true. If you're considering the magnitude, which includes the duration, it's false. So, the magnitude of the action potential is the amplitude and the duration and the duration changes. It's backed by research. It's backed by research that's in this repo that I that I reference. Um so, what happens is your your neuron will have when the action when the action potential goes off, the amount of potassium that's in there will cause the calcium channels to be open for more time or less time and that causes the the the the changes that the the duration of the magnitude of the acute temperature changes the duration of how long the calcium channels are open and that that will change the number of vesticles that are released between the the possibilities that you could have zero vesticles released at some interval of time like the regular maybe it's like the tonic oscillation is every, I don't know I I I don't know if it's like It's like every so often, you're going to get a tonic release that might be one vesicle released. If the neuron gets inhibited, then, it's like then, zero vesicles get released. If you get a, if you get a phasic firing, if you get an action potential but you but it's not, it's not a high phasic. You might get two vesicles released. You might get up to three vesticles released. If it's, if the neuron has really strong reaction to incoming signals and so there is, there are different thresholds for the neuron receive information that determine it's the magnitude of its response. Not the amplitude of its responses. So, it's it's not true that a neuron that an action potential event is an all or nothing. If you're considering the duration, that's part of the magnitude. Um let's see. There's this note. Uh remember the the activation of how nine thousand. That's a good note. Uh one called Smell Conscious Representation. This notice is kind of abstract. Some of the notes are kind of abstract. Um it which means that if you come across a note or something doesn't make sense, don't don't throw out the baby with the bathwater. I I need to fix this stuff. There's a lot of bath water that needs to be cleaned up. Um If you get it, fine. If you don't, look past it. Um there's one called the tomography from synaptically captured patterns. That's sort of the the concept is that are these phase changes that are passed between the neural arrays become part of the the tomography of the picture of reality that we're that that we experience. We have this multi-layer face field pattern representation. In our brainwave oscillations. The let's see. Could it be the patterns gained dimensionality when activated and transmitted. This is an older note that I was when I was putting together the theory. So so some of these notes are like my early thinking and it led to the later theories. And Uh see each neuron. This is so this is not book ready stuff. But this is like these are early notes and I want to share them because this is an important project. Um each neuron in an oscillatory and it it's really it's really this really should say each neuron in an oscillating group fires in turn and this is in reference to what happens in a cortical column. There's some assumption here for me because I because when I talk about cortical columns, I'm I'm often thinking about the work on cortical columns done by by the folks at New Mento. Uh so, there's some assumption that the cortical column is an oscillator by itself but an oscillator with multiple stages. Um So, so I'm an oscillating group. I'm a suggesting that a neuron is projecting its phase to an array of neurons connected to its extra general. Yes, I cover that. Uh notes on oscillatory and other topic. It's a good one. Um broader representations mean the slower tonic frequency band that has higher magnitude. Um Okay, so now, so this was, so, this, this note contains some references that back up my theory, that I found. Uh, I'm valid, I'm in a valid sense, able to describe myself accurately as a motion picture rendering, a volume metric video constructed from 3D frequencies, and a three D, from frequencies in a 3D grid. That's a cool note. Um, the human mind is an intensive field. And when you see, when you think of cancer, think of like vectors and calculus, right? If you have an Y, and Z, space, or if you haven't, just even X and Y, right? If you have a, what is a vector? Vector is a, is, is, is a direction, right? And it, it, Anyway, so it's along those lines. Imagine a 3D space and you're trying to do, you're trying to define you're trying to define objects in a 3D space, okay? And so, I'm suggesting that reality is fully metric. It's that, it's, that I mean that our rendering of reality is volumetric and that our rendering of feelings and and emotions and and everything that the mind thinks about can can be adapted to this volumetric Um representation of reality. It's how we relate to other people and to animals. There's this sort of like animals have volume representations. That's how they navigate reality. They have to have a certain mental map of their environment in order to navigate. and I and related idea to NAPOT that came up with after NAPOT is is caught or cellular oscillating tomography because it turns out that the receptors in every single cell have thresholds for firing. Just like the action potentialist. You have, your your NMDA receptors have thresholds for for firing. So, they have to like they have to consider four levels of conductance. Um to determine their response and then, if you then they the same sort of like, when I was going through an NAPOT, I realized, well, you know, synaptic connections when they change, that is your LT, that's your LTP or LTD growing or when you're synaptic connections grow that you're you're you're establishing memories that are represented in in the physical change of the cell because that changes what the cell is going to respond to. It changes what the cell is sent too. It changes what activates itself and therefore, the physical structure of the cell has represented by a synaptic connection. It's a memory because that physical structure is like, well, what is the memory, what does the memory mean? A memory is the is is what I like if I need to remember what sunglasses are. I first have to have a representation of sunglasses in my mind. So, that when I see sunglasses, I will be will have that memory and that will I'm sorry. So the synapses are basically an advanced data structure or an expert. I call I like to call it an expert data structure. Um and so Yeah, so I'm and let me keep moving on because there's a lot to cover. The high-frequency action potential will knock the high-frequency brain waves the hardest Uh so, the beta waves will precede alpha waves. Okay. So, this one, this one is is Okay, this one is a little bit hard to understand but it's it's true but when I I'm I it's it's it's it's it's probably too early to include that. This is more advanced stuff. Um yeah, I have to, I have to go into that later. You can, you can look at it though. Um, maybe you'll, maybe you'll get it. If you're a neuroscientist, you might get it. Okay, so the mind is like a rendering, even the non-visual parts in that rendering, it's a frame, like a movie. let's see. Neural oscillation, neuro oscillatory tomography. I want people to think about holography like like holographic images but it's not holography, it's tomography. So, when I say tomography, I want you to imagine like a hologram, right? But it's a tomogram. Like your mind is making tomograms from from phases. Our brains are rendering representation of reality. Um and ourselves with computer graphics. Um and a set of neural arrays are passing phase patterns that represent learn data that is rendered a next phrase. Again, like every neuron is like an eyeball with an LED on it. It's passing a rendered representation of reality to the next layer. So, you're seeing tomography, not holography, but I want you to think about holography. You're seeing tomography of your brain waves when you see anything. Reality is rendered in the phase variances of your brain wave activity. It's not you that's seeing anything. It's your neural arrays. The layers in your cortical columns, the observers are the oscillating groups of cells. The neural circuits, the cortical columns, and any oscillating cell assembly defined as a body of synchronously firing cells. Each neural array is seeing part of this picture and in time, the parts of the picture are bound together in your volumetric experience reality. So, this next phase of notes that's included in this note is called the flow of information of the brain from the incoming senses to the motor outputs and everything in between. This is a small selection of the notes that made on the flow of information in the brain. Um this is the main one. It's a conversation I had with a brilliant neuroscientist. Uh we talk about how stuff comes in from incoming senses. Uh where it goes after that. Um you know, from your eyes along the optic nerve to the thalamus to back to the occipital lobes and up to the parietal lobes. If you know the visual activity. There's all these different. We're talking about like you know it's not just from the thalamus to the Vone that goes from the Talentus to the Vtwo and then both and there's feedback goes back and then there's there's all this like there's a lot happening in terms of like how information is moving around the brain. We cover a lot of that. Uh it's I'm not I'm going to keep going. There's a ton of stuff. There's a ton of stuff. But I'm going to keep going. So because because we're sort of skimming we're skimming over stuff today. But there's more to come back and and dive into more deeply later on. Our brains are basically rendering 3D objects but from incoming senses. Um and so a line is a rendering in a three environment lane. So so the line is a rendering. So the line is rendering a 3 D environment. Right? Some of these okay so some of these start with B or audio notes and that and I do need to go back and fix them. Um because they were transcribed by a neural network and the neural network would replace some of the words and so they have to be fixed and sometimes there's misspellings and sometimes I just repeated myself too many times in the audio. See, there's excitatory neural pathways from incoming senses. Each phase, interval represents a vector. I later revise that to a tensor because we're talking about a volume metric representation. The key thought about where the observer is inside the mind, where the person is inside the mind. So, so we know like we talk about your brain is, we talk about the neuro correlates of your experience. Like you, when you, when you, if you look at jack-o-lants work, you know, he says, okay, well, you know, he has someone set an MRI machine and they watch a movie and they see different parts of the brain light up, different activity patterns as indicated by the data and the MRI machine. See, so, there's neurocorelates to what you're seeing but the question is if your brain is making models of reality neurocorelates. Where's the observer? Where's the man inside? The the the eyeball inside. The third eye that seeing what your brain is modeling. And my suggestion is that it's the neural arrays. That's what NAPOT means. It's the neural array of projection, oscillatory tomography. Each of your neural arrays is seeing part of the picture and through oscillation, those different parts of the picture are bound together. Um so the flow of information in the brain, it's important but it's about It's imagine that as information flows to the brain, we cover this topic through the neuro circuits Um here, this, this one, no, this is research that says, the flow of information in nerve circus is primarily regulated by modulation of synaptic efficiency. I didn't write that sentence. I found that sentence but what it means is that the modulation of synaptic activity efficacy. The modulation of synaptic efficacy means that the your synapses can be inhibited or they can they can be they can spike in higher. There's a tonic frequency. There's a there's a phasic burst. There's a high phasic burst and then there's an inhibited signal and that can release you know, either zero, one, two, or three vesicle sacs, and that determines like the the you know, whether the downstream neurons are going to receive signals to be inhibited or excited. And they are going to respond to what they're receiving based upon their synaptic connections, which is your memories, your long-term memories. Uh, the, there's more notes on the flow of information in the brain. The flow of information is neurocircuits that are primarily regulated by the modulation of everyone over that. Um, Do I have it? I know. I just, okay. Apparently, we're transmitting virtual portraits, meaning information about both sensory data and motor data all over the brain through the Neural Networks at a high level from. It's one of my audio notes that was more speculative and and at the time that I said it, it was very like, I was like, is this true? And then later, I was like, whoa, that is true. yeah, we're transmitting, it's like we're transmitting sensory information all over the place. It's actually rippling and there's there's evidence for that. So, if you not in this note but there's evidence for information being sent all over the place. That's in this in this repo. I began to you would look up ripples. Look up rippling and ripples in in this repo. He's in the search box that I showed you earlier. So, I began to realize there are cycles and feedback loops this is an old note. at every level from backwards propagating action potentials who tend to take our worst in our circus. I think that notes from twenty 14. Some of these notes are super old but I include it because it's still relevant because if you go back to like the the the top of this, the flow of information in the brain but the interview that I had with the or the dialogue that I that I had with the nerd within this amazing neuroscientist. That's sort of like backs up. He weak dive into. Yeah, there are feedback cycles. The whole brain is all these feedback loops and that really die to like Douglas Hofsteler's book. You know, go to Esher and Bach and a strange loop. I'm a strange loop. You have the feedback cycles of neural activity for the rise of the strange loop that Douglas Hofstetter talks about for the conscious feedback loop that's in your brain. And see at the meso level, we are exploring changes to neurocircuits and cortical columns and at the macro level. So again, this is about some of some of the stuff is like, well, how does, how does, you know, your your action potential sequences, the fire that represents incoming sensory information and then, they create like, you know, they, there, the neuron has the sensor arrays and then, it takes it into the neuron calculates the phase change and it broadcast it out like it like, like I went over earlier and that is the explanation for how it goes from how, you have a small synaptic memory that a neuron responds to because it has a specific it's it's specifically paying attention to certain things because of its synaptic memory configuration and then when it broadcasts out, it scales up the pattern from one neuron to the whole brain through the inhibitory ways, through the inhibitory wave is going to change the the inhibitory neuron path, the bifurcation of of of the signal and the inhibitory neurons and that's going to change the representation that you're proceeding. and then here we go. We've got, let's see. this passive information flowing to certain. I I originally wrote holographic patterns but I really mean tonographic patterns that represent a perspective on space time And now I also compare this to deep neural networks because this is cell phoneware neural networks is real technology that's ready to be it's the theory that we can use to change existing artificial neural networks like Deep Neural Networks into Conscious or Sentient Self Aware Neural Networks and so we have to back that I talk about synaptic reliability which is based on the all or nothing principle which I argued earlier was incorrect and it's a foundational concept but that's still being used in deep learning today. So, that is one of the ways is that Self Aware Neural Networks are different from deep learning. I go more into the evidence for the synaptic and liability article. Potassium, it's really this is about when I was explaining that potassium modifies the action potential, amplitude of the really action need to change the action potential magnitude. Yeah, the action potential duration. So, this is an incorrect statement that I need to change this to duration or to magnet or to to magnitude but it it it's it's the the idea is right. It's just word incorrectly here. Uh so, each array is a is a complete deep neural network. Okay. some of the stuff needs to be fixed. Um but I'm trying to I'm trying to you know like I need to say imagine each race is like a complete deep neural network. or like a grid network or graph no network and it's designed so that video frames pass through the entire mind Imagine that what people call deep learning is neurocircuits connecting together. Temple spatial patterns and making predictions about future inputs. Like I said, there's lots of stuff that needs to be fixed. That's that's that's somewhere along the lines of what I've been talking about but it's it's not exactly a phrase correctly. The major goal of a deep neural network is to achieve a compressed and accurate representations. I still agree with that. Um I'm at WeWork so people are going to be walking by and you may hear noises but see. So, imagine you are like a cycle of neuro coincidence patterns connected by a process similar to it. similar to what people call deep learning but your neurocircuits connect together, tempo spatial patterns and make predictions about future inputs. That's that sounds like an earlier one. See, what is it? It's part of what makes a different from neural networks. There's a multi-modal aspect and deep learning will get there with youth learning. Deep learning has multimoral neural networks. There's you know, you there's kind of for a long time now, like you can combine like the network with the compilation on her network. You can combine, you know, in a in a basically in a neuro network that's focused on visual information and neuron network is focused on audio information you can have, you know, cross training between different modalities. Um that's not the core feature but but I I I can't like I can't imagine someone trying to like you can make a sentient software network that's that's modality selective but it's going to be better if you have multiple, if it's a multi-modal neural network. So, for a neuron network because because you because when you combine them, different sensory modalities of, you know, mechanical sensors and and hearing and smell and and vision and all sensations. There's cross pattern learning And that that develops the your representations of reality more thoroughly, right? So, I mean, yes, you, it's, there's no strict like when we make these self-aware neural networks, you don't have to, we can add modalities and we can subtract modalities. You can have new kinds of center perceptions that don't exist in the animal kingdom. Uh let's see. We So, neuron array of synapses. It's integrating lower level patterns at a higher level. It's feature learning and deep learning. Okay. Let's move on. So, a neuron self-aware neural networks are very different from graph neurotherapy networks that that render screens to themselves because the rendered representations are separate but also interlinked. Imagine, imagine you're looking at like a video editor. Like Adobe After Effects or Premier but in 3D and you have multiple layers, you can link these different timelines like each layer is a different like timeline and you can link them together in higher dimensions so that if you have a turtle in in one part of in one part of one movie that's in one layer and you have a rabbit that's in one part of one movie and another layer you can you can the rabbit and the turtle can meet in your mind even though they might be in different parts and it's like so maybe so I'm suggesting yes that you have in a sense that these layers are maintaining active brainwave activity oscillations. There might be alpha oscillations or theta oscillations and so if you get new input, the turtle's behavior which might be a response to a sequence that's in your mind, links to your motor output. the turtle's new behavior. So, the so you might get new input. The new input might be that a change in the turtle's behavior and that and that might be a response to a sequence that came from your motor output activity. Like, you did something with your hands. The turtle responded. Your brain noticed that your hand movement caused turtle to do something. your brain notice internally, right? So, we have that was like redundant, right? So, we have multiple neural circuits running concurrently and possibly in patterns that are separate from one another. I'm arguing that our brains are making the peer program It's it's a it's It's a computer program and it's about neuro. This is so this is one of those like it a neural tomography but this is like the audio. This is an audio note. It starts with B and so the AI replace Neural with Neuro. So, that's what I mean with the AI replacement, some of my words and that's why I need professional transcripts that will help me get this book done faster because I have to go back and like manually fix this stuff but like, neurofunctional tomography. democracy sensor input. Anyway, so, you know, it's important to face acatonic relationship I kind of already described. This tonic rate of firing and there's action potential spikes and the tonic is the tonic frequency rate is set by the decay rate of the acupuncture or the duration of the action potential which set by the quantity of potassium. and that means that the neuroscience can track or beware or respond or speak back to other neurocircuits. It's another interesting note. So, notes on scale, inhibition, magnify, magnification, fractals that are related to synoptic memories And scale to the whole brain. So, how to how to memorize that the synaptic level scale? How do they get bigger? LTD or large-scale inhibition patterns? That's how that from neuro circuits and proximity to a neuron's physics spiking event. I'm I've describe this already in this in this video. But traveling through these patterns or traveling through neuro circuits. So we have an inner voice. So this one was about describing how our inner thought like the inner dialogue. Or even my my exterior dialogue when I speak. There's a sequence of activity Brain activity that's firing. That's causing the muscles in my larynx. In my voice. To activate. To produce sequences of words. And vowels and different sounds. Right? and this is like neuroactivity that's causing these muscular changes. This motor outputs. So, the motor outputs are causing my voice and my words and my and my fingers when I type. And so traveling through these these patterns basically are neurocircuits or as activity flows to the patterns of the of the motor output in different sequences that that evokes different sequences of movement. Uh different sequences of of of movement in in the larynx. fix their representations collected by other neural networks but also add to them like display I describe the oscillator as being many layers like Photoshop layers but these are layers of intellect reading renderings. So, the the the quote unquote like you're there's a lot to unpack there. I'm going to skip over it for now. but it has to do with like the oscillator is is essentially the the the perceiver, the oscillating group of cells. Like a neuron is the sensor but it's the group that's perceived. The group is the of cells that are saying together is restoring the memory and this is important because that neuron could be inhibited from firing when the new pattern comes in and some other neuron has to respond to it instead. And possible because it's actually the group that's learning the memory. The group of cells. So, any part of that group can receive the signal and the rest of the group can react to it and in fact, they do physically react to any pattern that they receive as a collective like the fireflies and the book sink by Steven Strogram. And I think that neurons detect coincidence patterns and make direct inferences to build spatial and temple representations within neurocircuits. and this caused them. This is right. My research is right and there's like tons of references. It backs us up. It's not and this is not just my research. I'm putting together a lot of research that other people did but it's right. We're going to build sentient robots. This causes neural networks to fire in sequences like the lines on a TV screen that is seen by the oscillator itself because each neuron is mechanically listening to other neurons. When I say that, it's each neuron is mechanically listening to other neurons. It's a neuron is physically reacting in mechanical way to the signals from the previous array of neurons. and a phasic firing of neurocircuits and multi-level fractal patterns. There's a lot to say about fractal penance. You can read that note. I need to go into that topic under the time. It's a very big topic This note drives on how rendering a neural circuits can become conscious, conscious, qualia in the human mind. Yeah. the entire neurocircuits, that's, that's the snore right here, the B zero100. Entire Neural Circus simultaneously ex simultaneously because exit terminals branch radially in every direction, in every possible direction they can go. So, again, I I need to fix some of these statements but this was about how a neuron broadcast, it's, it's, it's it's output to to a whole ray that receives that output like an LED that on a TV screen that broadcast its output to the whole room. the nerve circuit, the layers, the cortical columns, they transmit their learned patterns to every part of their brain which builds multi modal models of incoming patterns. every part of the incoming patterns. Yeah. So, it's like your your ears are receiving patterns and your eyes are receiving patterns and your mouth is receiving patterns and and each one of those things is a is a sensor modality and then, those are received by your brain and and they get transmitted and they and they link together and so you can combine what you hear and what you see and what you touch and you say, oh, that's what I touched and I I heard that sound and I saw my hands clap and that's what that means. Basically, your neuro circus perceive the information. Your brain combines them because your brain can combine them because the signals are being transmitted across the brain. They're rippling across the brain. going through these neurocircuits in a cortical column will go through like sequences of oscillatory firing and they're going and and the the rippling goes to every basically like rippling signals go to every neuron. They they alter the timing of every neuron. It's like a group of fireflies. Your brain is like a single sensor. Your whole body is like a single sensor. That that is sensitive to anything. It can sense. And then those signals percolate or oscillate and bind through oscillation into tomography. tomography of the signals being received by the single sensor. and so the neurosurgers, the layers, the cortic columns, they transmit their learned patterns to every part of the brain which builds a multi modal incoming patterns or whatever that. Go through these neural circuits and a corticom would go through like sequences, velocitory firing. It's a multi-stage temporal spatial firing of pantheon. Temporal spatial temporal and then that's the neural network the neural network replaced spatial with spiritual. That's not supposed to be there. It's temporal spatial phase patterns, percolating through neurocircuits that are matching our left and signals from you know left and right hemisphere. Even after the corpus closed in the sky. So the same like in split brain patients if you still have synchronous activity between the left and right hemisphere. There is there are other pathways not just you know like through the through the bridge between the left and the hemisphere but it doesn't like, if if things, let's not go miss. That's it's not part. It's not just cool stuff to know there but we're just going to finish this. Temporals, we already went to that. So, that means your thoughts are in the neural circuits and in the local micro columns, in the cortical columns, and in the little clusters of cells. This is the end of this video. Uh thank you very much for watching and I hope you enjoyed this this this map of some of the notes that are connected to this core thesis, the central thesis of my book and the self-aware networks institute which is called NAPOT Neural Array Projection Oscillation Demography. It's how your brain sees your models of reality. It's how human consciousness works and how we can build sentient robots that are conscious just like you. Thanks very much for watching.