a0014z ctpr
Jul 13, 2011
What is conscious thought?

I imagine that nothing is like the whole of spacetime undivided, without thought or distinction, its the holistic perspective outside perception.
Is it ok for one person to be equally ok with there not being a point, as they are with there being a point? Perhaps no point is a sort of dualism that can only be transcended, when one realizes it's a distinction accomplished only when one disowns the point. Like a shadow point. As long as it's denied, the distinction of no point can make sense. What happens when we become the apex of point and no point. Unifying 

all perspective absolute and relative, everything and nothing.

The point that is no point becomes the point that is and isn't, and also isn't, while it is at the same time.

It's a metaphor, people have a metaphor, and then they learn stuff, and the metaphor expands, at some point growth stops because the mind is expecting nothing good from the unknown, it chooses fear instead of fearlessness. Seriously I've seen it in hundreds of people. The only way we do something that is beyond our rational self protective bubble, is when we actually believe that there is something we would like to have is outside our bubble. The incentive to grow again, becomes this fearless quest. Once someone has crossed the metaphorical threshold, and dared to walk into the unknown, because they trust that something worth going there is there waiting for them. The action of crossing this "threshold" is a neurological shift. You'll see a contrast in the population you might have noticed and might not have noticed,


 while you and many others will be humbled full of Gratitude and genuinely respectful towards everything. It's a boundary that the rational (fear based mind) cannot ever cross. Only a leap of faith (when the left brain submits to the creative right brain) can bring you to the other side of the road.

The paradox is that when the small face becomes totally helpless in the face of determinism, and stops trying to control everything (futile) then vast face takes over. In the moment of becoming totally helpless and renouncing small face, you become all powerful and one with the way that you are.

A new type of connection or inner relationship between parts of the mind is formed or so I believe.

Does not mean I think all these ideas have to be correct.
The point is that they A: make for a good story, for a book, and B: they help start new conversations not end them. I'm good.