a0044z ctpr
(oscillat, field, electromagnetism, observer)
new equation for quantum gravity spacetime refined again! I could not stay off twitter. I had to come and tell you this. It has to do with neurons, a brand new way to see neurons as bending spacetime.

I am really redefining spacetime, electromagnetism, the brain, artificial intelligence and brain computer interfaces all at the same time!

its that I realized that neurons are bending spacetime and I am going to explain how.

where charge increases spacetime accelerates in relativity, where charge decreases the same happens, positive and negative charges cause space to converge, the positive charge is going to move towards the greatest negative charge, the inhibited area around a fired neuron is going to have a negative charge that is attractive to positive charge and it is going to ripple outward like a sphere pattern of on/off that scales larger until it dissipates off its energy into the electric field

so charges oscillate, and they combine, they send rippling signals that increase time and decrease time, but they create a directional surface area, where there is an expanding large negative field that is punctuated by smaller electrical charges, so the electrical charges make negative waves

So an electric field when it is observed is changing from a negative wave pattern to a positive charge pattern. The excited space has been stimulated by the observer it has recieved a charge from the observer, the observer is a gravitational object, and the brain is changing spacetime by observing it

because the observer effect is to reverse the polarization of space from unobserved space to observed space

the observer is causing the electromagnetic field to densify, with charges flowing toward the observer

but charges are also rippling out from the observer

when a photon hits the eye an electron goes in, and by implication a proton is created that bounces back into the room

the observer is absorbing electricity like a tornado from the light
and at the same time is releasing a positive electron or a proton that creates the radial blast of time ripples.

with the proton accelerating time, and the electron decelerating time.

negative space is time

a new theory of quantum gravity and it connects to neuroscience

oh my goodness I just found all the missing anti-matter in the universe! I found it! I could not stay off twitter I had to come and say that. I have a new theory of quantum gravity folks! Just refined it tonight, and it connects to neuroscience.

the antimatter is time, expanding space is negative electrical charge, neutral space is a photon or light

negative space plus positive time = light
mass equals in oscillation which warps spacetime
the mass configuration of the human attracts information as like vortexs feeding on electricity
which causes radial rippling lanes of time as proton releases

This 
