a0051z ctpr
Note created Sep 21, 2011,
(cortex)

Ilona Markedeternal
This is where Micah enlightens Ilona. 
Go for it Cyp. Explain it for me how it all works as you would for a child. I'm listening.
Unlike ·  · Unfollow Post · 51 minutes ago via mobile
You and Vikash Nagar like this.

Micah Blumberg
 get a video camera and point it at its own screen, thats a feedback loop. Next create a learning machine modeled on the human neocortex. So it sorts experiences into statistical memory which is used to predict what happens next. These predictions are our thoughts about everything. Next these memory-prediction-thoughts actually manifest as actual brainwaves in the em range. These in turn control all the muscles and send & receive info through nerves etc... so the brainwaves control sounds, movement, and the eyes and ears see this and make the association feedback loop on itself that is later called self. Which in turn is short for self awareness otherwise know as a learning self awareness. Awareness alone is the association or energy link between two of anything. or you could just read the book called "I am a strange loop" by Douglas Hofstadter
32 minutes ago · Like ·  1 person

Vikash Nagar if i post it somewhere and say i m enlightened will they buy it
24 minutes ago · Like

Ilona Markedeternal I said like you would to a child. 5 year old. Please.
24 minutes ago via mobile · Like

Ilona Markedeternal And from your own words, no quotes, ok?
23 minutes ago via mobile · Like ·  1 person

Vikash Nagar why 5yr why not 5 months is it a one-on-one than i m out of here
23 minutes ago · Like

Ilona Markedeternal Vikash, 5 month does not know language. Pointless.
21 minutes ago via mobile · Like

Vikash Nagar ok make it 4 yrs than but not 5 my son is 5 if he reads this he will relate i dont want that
20 minutes ago · Like

Christopher Mann OK, so assuming self is real, does a chimp also have a sense of self? how bout a fish? horseshoe crab? earthworm? paramecium? Or is sense of self strictly in humans only?
19 minutes ago · Like ·  1 person

Micah Blumberg
 its a learning loop that learns itself, it refers to this association with its own loop as self

Micah Blumberg
yes dogs and some other animals may also be learning loops that have learned themselves

Micah Blumberg
 a worm or crab it seems a lot less likely

Christopher Mann But if they PERCEIVE self does that prove self exists? I'm not talking about physical self.
13 minutes ago · Like
Micah Blumberg
I can tell this is still kinda going over your head C, so think it over for one night at least
12 minutes ago · Like

Christopher Mann Intelligence is merely a set of beliefs...
11 minutes ago · Like

Christopher Mann Math isn't real it's made up...
11 minutes ago · Like

Christopher Mann So is language...
10 minutes ago · Like

Ilona Markedeternal Learning loop that learns itself. Does that prove that self exists?
9 minutes ago via mobile · Like

Micah Blumberg
no intelligence is a process that produces the appearance of beliefs
8 minutes ago · Like ·  1 person

Christopher Mann your last statement is a belief.
8 minutes ago · Like

Ilona Markedeternal Math is real. Numbers point to quantities. Quantities can be calculated. 
Intelligence is. 
No one owns it.
7 minutes ago via mobile · Like

Micah Blumberg
no its just the appearance of a belief
7 minutes ago · Like

Micah Blumberg
the self is a learning loop that learns itself, thats what self refers too, thats proof the self exists
6 minutes ago · Like



Tags:
  brainwaves, killed