a0056z ctpr
the transcendent man
imagine that you realize that your mind is a computer program,
and that everything that you can see exists twice, once as the real world, and once as a 3D rendered perspective for your brain,

only the parts that make up the perspective are rendered, each component of the rendering is a tiny wavelet, a soliton wavelet, making up the canvas of your mind, what reads the wavelet, neurons in a downstream listening mode oscillation, what makes a wavelet? each wavelet is the result of action potential firing, it represents a pattern that consists of many bits, temporal and spatial firing codes, that evoke a certain tempo-spatial pattern with other neurons in order to represent a fired pattern in the brain, that the listening neurons listen to

different cortical columns oscillate or take turns either in a listening stage or in a firing stage, you will have many neurons receieving the same firing instructions at the same times to reproduce high level patterns that are recognized and stored as low level patterns, each low level pattern is a fractal of a higher fired pattern, but since many neurons have to have coordinated firing to evoke that pattern they all share the same firing instructions, ie the same pattern that all of a set of neurons has learned is stored in each neuron, so each one individual detects that pattern and fires accordingly, and new patterns are learned when new AP firing patterns are added at a high level from an unexpected real world event and that modifies the memory of the original micropattern that each neuron in that sequence is going to remember as a variation on its pattern memory.

but also keep in mind that each pixel of your reality, in your field of view, everything you see right now, is not just a wavelet, or a ribbon of magnetic & electromagnetic frequency, but its also only that for one millisecond as each neuron fires for one millisecond in your multi-sensory canvas of awareness.

If I cross my eyes I find that I can imagine almost any shape, such as a black letter W, and X, and even a cross and my brain will make it appear for myself. Its a strange exercise but I think of it as like bending my brains own pixels, or bending the spoon in the matrix.

To try this Cross your eyes, think about how your vision is a computational rendering that your brain is doing, then imagine any shape you want to see, imagine that you can consciously change the pixel renderings of your internal represenation. Because you are computational in nature.

Thinking about that suggestion to think of a game engine as a simulation engine
I want to say the mind is simulation engine or a holodeck or like a game engine, the brain needs to render a virtualized camera that is your viewpoint based on your stereo eye positions and it needs to render this from incoming data.

so the idea with the mice as pointed out in the example of the rat by Biszaki in Rhythms of the brain
is that creatures have a built in evolved prediliction to certain kinds of modes of thinking, like humans have non-sensical words that they evolved to form, but the process of learning from the start of life until the end just reshapes those evolved blocks, perhaps further mutating or preserving them in the next generation of lifeforms.  

Why don't we have public discussions with the people who dislike the leaders of each country and the people who do. With the goal being civil discourse, raising the facts, letting members of the public learn and vote on every little disagreement, letting social media work out the differences between people, trusting the intelligence of mankind to resolve differences.

The consciousness without the content.