a0067z ctpr
(dendrite) #4 #dendrite (notes that mention dendrite
Created Jun 22, 2021, 11:51 AM
Supermap // a map of your entire life attempted.
A memo for memory (this note corresponds to a mindmap that is meant to organize all my simple notes) #memo
The idea is that I create a note for myself to read first thing every morning to help get my mind back on track to priorities that I thought about the day before or the week before but are not automatically remembering. This note is about improving my memory.
Okay so what are all the things that I want to think about today?

books paper learning resources
https://docs.google.com/document/u/0/d/1pdrAVC1MHSYeGTWHeFGQAFKbKhxEwpQxwoZiIgr4t4k/mobilebasic

I want to think about the books that I am reading everyday: This includes Chapter 27 Dendritic Highways in the book on my kindle called "The Secret Language of Cells: what biological conversations tell us about the brain-body

I want to look up patch clamps on neurons and patch clamps on dendrites

Daily Book Progress
The Secret Language of Cells
Rhythms of the Brain by Gyorgy Buzsaki
Nexus (Nexus Arc Book 1) 
I have listened to most of the Nexus Trilogy on audio book I think, however I am confused about how the events of the book fit together, perhaps because my mind wanders too much while listening. It might be a symptom of attention deficit disorder.
The author first introduces Samantha Cataranes as the woman.


I want a short list of every webpage I am still interested to explore, every topic I want to continue researching on the web, from the previous day.

Maybe I ought to have a folder for screenshots and images that I want to review every morning. Stuff I want to review once a week. Ideas I want to review every 2 weeks or once a month or once every quarter etc.

What are all the email threads that I am following
I think I need a  special place inside every app that I care about that I am referencing here

What are all the mindmaps that I have ever created and where are they stored

how many audio files to I have and where are they located

how many video files do I have and where are they located

how many companies and person have I interviewed where and when?

how many articles have I written?
What if I make a copy of every article that I have ever written and move it to Simple Note?