a0087z ctpr
Self Aware Networks Institute, Book, Monetization Plans
book chapter outline topics list (book, cortex)
Book update: I've been working on the book from April 2021 to June 2022. I'm still not done but I'm working hard to release my notes soon on github because github is the same as publishing & I can start the Institute from Github.

Macro Scale viewpoint on the book & institue progress.
Titles: The main title and subtitle has been decided upon. (I will share the title and subtitles later on when I put up a link for pre-orders to amazon)
Self Aware Networks, Neo Mind Cycle, Artificial Neurology

The Book's main theory & scope has been defined. The Three Major Sections have been outlined in detail specifying what categories of content are in the book and what categories of content are not in the book.

These major sections are about the human brain, brain computer interfaces, and neural networks respectively, as I have new ideas to share in all three areas.

Beyond titles for the major sections I have already defined what content each of these three sections includes and what it excludes topic wise, although minor changes to the included topics are plausible & likely. This high level outline helps shape the table of contents and topics list at a lower level.

Meso Scale
The Table of Contents: Chapter Names, Topics under each chapter, the list of main Arguments, the list of references, and the list of citations is coming together and it's what I am focusing on the most right now.

I've gone through multiple drafts for the exact table of contents, which continues to grow because I continue to get great new ideas.

The topics list is like a list of things to be added or subtracted from the table of contents,
The multi-level mindmap / outline has gone through several different drafts and continues to develop (and will continue to develop until the publication date.)
I have listed many of the arguments in different notes but they still need to be moved into one place.
Still adding to, removing from, re-ordering from first to last, and using to organize various writings.
This serves triple duty as a high level outline for slotting in things that I have written both recently this year and in past decade.
Status: Ongoing, mostly complete, might be making minor changes up until the publication date.

Micro Scale Viewpoint & Work
Moving & Ordering Various writings:
I have written extensively on many of the topics in the book, my work is spread out across a ton of different apps on several different devices.
I have thousands of pages of notes, some of my written work goes back to 2010. That will need to get reduced to what I think will be around 300 pages.

Moving my collections of work from the many different apps located on many different devices into the outline & table of contents above, and then ordering them from first to last is the main work right now.
In addition there is still content that I need to create, but I am optimistic that once I have the main stuff organized, and outlined the gaps I will be able to fill in the blanks with my handy AI based transcription tool, allowing me to fill in the blanks by talking to the computer. (I will need to fix the auto transcriptions but they are mostly well done.)
Status: I'm not going to be able to absolutely organize everything in the first edition of the book because I have too much content to sort through, so I am in a manner of speaking just going to grab what I can with the time that I have and put this together.

//////////////////////////////////////////
The WebXR API community has an opportunity to steer the NFT market away from the use of ethereum and towards the use of environmentally safe cryptos like Tezos, Solana, Polygon, and others. We need to create new kinds of applications for displaying NFTs in webXR that make the construction of a WebXR metaverse easy and straight forward.

imagine a bitcoin membership tolen made put of blue saffier crystal but the coordinates of each pixel, ita a light field are each nft's so that if anyone zeroed in on the website on that pixel you can see who owns that membership token, and their email

their whole membership card as they want the public to see
and a hidden memberahip card that is only four our club to see.

The Inactive-old NFT membership token Institute Idea + other ideas for monetization of our work.
Give the book away for free but sell an NFT membership to a institute.

We can solve many of the human rights issues by getting all essential nutrients affordable and available to every human being on this planet. When you raise the threshold of cognitive performance people think of better ways to behave that benefit everyone.

The SAO  going to use your donations to hire programmers to help me create the webxr version of this book with this 3D carousel interface, and the ability to grab items with gravity gloves
and the ability to see your fnirs biofeedback in VR and AR

I'm also going to build a self aware phenominally conscious artificial neural network in webxr that can interface with your mind, connecting your mind with ar and Vr to ai 

its like your neural correlates are visualized and turned into audio by the computer so you gain new insights into your own thought patterns and that accelerates your mental pattern formation.

A limited edition of red series NFT token memberships. You will get a digital membership card with your name on it. You will have a life time red token NFT membership tied to the email address you verified with us or to a name with a link, one link that has links to all your social media & websites. So you are choosing to associate as a red token holder, which means you have a first edition membership. It can be resold, and the data inscribed in it can be changed by the new owner.

At the end of each year I will stop selling the red token series of NFT memberships
so each token series represents the year it was purchased, so the red series represents 2022. The Blue series represents 2023, and the Yellow series represents 2024. For all of time your descendents will know that you had a membership with the Self Aware Networks Institute. That includes a virtual world to discover the related topics research and history

The Self Aware Networks Institute. Copyright. (2021)
The Self Aware Networks Institute.
TradeMark 2021. All Rights Reserved.
The entire book & the notes go into the patent application.

If you are reading this you just won a free copy of my book Self Aware Networks congratulations! I recommend that you support my work by purchasing a lifetime membership in the Self Aware Networks Institute for any donation amount from $20 - $20 trillion dollars in cryptocurrency. Send me your name, I will list you as a member on the website, along with a thanks for everyone's support address to everyone on the list, which includes you. Note I will not list names that include profanities, obscene language, propaganda, harassment, or the word anonymous. So please use your real name or a trademark you control. If your name submission was rejected because it was nasty there are no returns. Once you send your money we are keeping it. No returns if you change your mind. You can buy more lifetime memberships for yourself later on if you want to donate again. Each one is a serial code nft collectors item. We accept bitcoin, ethereum, and any crypto that is on metamask in any donation amount so email micah@vrma.io to receive a delivery address in the crypto you want to donate with. Email me to let me know where to send the free copy of my book. I will send you the book when its done, and you will get early copy to see the big ideas I am putting together before anyone else. You will also be able to write to me to share your feedback and collaborate with me on brain storming sessions.

My conjecture is that the solution to world peace is 1. To give the world sentient self aware neural network robots and 2. To ask everyone in the universe to forgive everyone else everyday so that we can work together to make the world better for everyone!

I love the idea that the cosmos we experience is literally inside someone elses mind and that they are conscious of all of us. I also think its an interesting that person, and each animal is creating a node of the universe. 

Self Aware Network Institute & Foundation
nervegear.net 2021 commemorative NFT token that will only be issued in the year 2021. This is a collectors item proving that you support the research of this institute that you are part of thanks to your support. To fuel our research and pay researchers & engineers we make "membership tokens available for members to collect" as a reciept on every donation of the equivalent of $20 dollars or more by prices in 2021. 
You are supporting the foundation-extension for 
You can shape our work depending on what you donate to, and the proof is that you own membership tokens in each of these.
The oldest tokens are worth the most in membership credit because

Another idea involved members sell 4 nft assets to 4 people
and they only unlock the parent asset when or if they collect all 4
or if you collect all four fractal NFTs you unlock the parent NFT according to the smart contract, so its after the fact
I can also disguise which NFTs are part of which sets so users will have to create their own guides
The smart contract will look to see if you have all 4 fractal NFTs
because they have to be in the same wallet to activate the parent NFT. So the smart contract program has to scan your wallet to verify that you have purchased all four NFTs thst belong to its set.

A more giving humanity,
I want to make it possible for human beings to create the most beautiful virtual presents quickly and easily so giving beautiful presents to everyone you meet is going to be a regular thing.
The people who give you presents are people you like, humans are wired that way.

This year I find myself filing a provisional patent, finishing a book, starting an institute, solving climate change, inventing conscious robots, writing a new equation for spacetime, uniting general relativity & quantum physics, writing about neurophysics, proposing a new category of math, tackling global economic issues, creating new webxr tech & new bci tech. It's just a regular day in the neighborhood of San Francisco.

The membership for a donation in any amount gets you a subscription to our notifications so that we can send you updates on our progress, give you early insight into our research invite you to events to collaborate on writing open source software, access to news about new educational metaverse experiences made with webxr. In essence a membership token means we send our emails to the email address that we have on file for you. Changing to a new email is possible if we can verify both the new and the old email address, via a program, a smart contract will initiate allowing you to sell your nft to another person but keep your email address and replace it with theirs as part of the sale

This technology will be automated once I am able to hire a team of programmers to help me implement all these ideas faster.

The self aware networks institute for the study of neurophysics, artificial neurology, brain computer interfaces, and advanced technologies..

Machine brain to computer interface ha

this describes how ports can be attached to artificial brains to link them into other computing systems and with other artificial brains 

The artificial brain transistor array

By selling NFTs I mean they are memberships distinguished by the date of purchase, linked to an email & a web address via a smart contract. A membership from 2021 fetches a higher resale value because its a first edition membership.

The purchase itself is not a financial transaction actually despite our use of the words purchase and the word selling there is no actual transaction taking place, the book is free to everyone, your membership NFT is something we will send to you after a donation in any amount with the smallest donation being 20. You could donate a trillion dollars or more and your investment would make you rich because with artificial sentient labor the amount of production of goods and services with scale up massively which means your personal purchasing power increases massively, everyone gets richer, but we will all live longer healthier lives, with the potential to even slow down your experience of time by extending your mind with a connection to an artificial cortex if our institutes mission is successful. This means that the average human lifespan with our technologies can potentially feel exponentially longer than it feels right now because the total amount of calculations per second that your brain can process with our technology will expand your brain. Expanding your brain power means more thoughts per second and that means your experience of spacetime slows down. You become more aware of every moment.

Your support of the institute comes with the free gift of being among the first in the world to learn about the latest advances in our research.

the rumor is that we give away a free annual NFT token membership to our institute which is located on selfawarenetworks.com with every donation that is worth over $20

as a member you will receive notifications from us via the email address associated with your donation

this will mean that you will be among the first in the world to learn about advances in our work at the institute that will lead to the perception of life extension via an increase in the amount of thoughts you have per time interval with an extended artifical cortex.


Please help me to achieve my life goals of creating nervegear/augma level bci tech, conscious robots, and artificial cortex

I realized in 2012 that these were my life goals and I dedicated my life to solving them.

the problem that I had with getting the layer and the canvas to react the same way with teleportations in worldspace is the same problem I had with exokit web with getting interactions from one canvas to work with another canvas

I thought I would need to send commands over the server
but in essence I need a duplicate camera teleporter in each canvas

then I just send the same signal to each

so I need like a way to duplicate functions and commands from one canvas to another

I need art, an art concept for each topic in the book. Put the word in the middle, like a slide to find pictures.

send your 

with this NFT Serial Token you get a first edition life time membership for a super low price

you can become a member of the Self Aware Networks Institute before its built, your membership will help us pay our staff to finish building out the vision of building a webxr based institute dedicated to our research that is intended to benefit all mankind.

The price of life time membership will increase every year by ten times. That means that a $20 membership token that you purchase in 2021 you can resell for a lot more years down the road.

we will mint these for the entire year.

$20 in 2021 Red Cortical Column Token
$200 in 2022 Blue Circadium Rhythm Token
$2,000 in 2023 Yellow Sensory Array Token
Available in 2024 only for a donation of $20,000 The Orange Hippocampus Token
$200,000 in 2025 Purple Thalamus Token
$2,000,000 in 2026 Green Neo Cortex Token
$20,000,000 in 2027 
$200,000,000 in 2028 White Tonic Oscillator Token
$2,000,000,000 in 2029 Black Phasic Firing Token

not only are first editions going to be worth more than second editions in the same way that an aged wine 


////////////////////////////This NFT Wallet idea doesn't really work but I'm saving it because it was interesting, maybe another idea will come out of it later.
I accept payment in crypto currencies.
What if the nft is hash that resolves a weblink to the 3D asset that can only render if that same hash is entered into a webpage
What if the nft generates a new public key and private key everytime its sold so only its owner has access to its contents
Essentially you can send private data to the nft box's public key, and only the current owner of that NFT can retrieve that data.
Okay so what if we replace the public key with the rendering like art
okay, lets change this, lets say you can inscribe the inside of the NFT like its a present by sending a message to its public key.
Then you essentially lock the message until you transfer the NFT to a new owner, the new owner receives a newly generated private key
NFT Box Encryption
The Smart Contract procedurally generates a new private key that it will pass only to the new owner of an NFT
So people can transfer secret messages on the blockchain, anyone can see the nft box, only the owner can unlock it.
So the NFT file is the public key.
The inside of the NFT can contain any kind of file
so an entire crypto account could be hidden inside the NFT
But the private key generating mechanism is 
hidden inside another crypto key
so in this case we use homomorphic encryption to hide the algorithm from the cpu
but this essentially allows us to hand over keys digitally without retaining a copy, so the NFT key can't be copied because it deletes the old private key after
In this case the PC runs a tumbler, of clocks
each clock is rotated a number of times during the transaction,
pause that
okay lets just say that just put a cold storage wallet inside the NFT
the amount can be revealed to the potential receiver before the transaction
NFT Wallets
A user can create an image that has a public key 
hmm
Okay so lets hide the private key generator offline...

////////////////////////////notes on Web3
web3 
https://www.preethikasireddy.com/post/the-architecture-of-a-web-3-0-application

web3 does not prevent anything javascript related, its a stack extension not a stack prevention

The real way to look at web3 is just as an optional extension for incorporating smart contracts & crypto exchanges. It doesn't add points of failure. Like everything else web2 & web3 websites need security audits, and well thought out designs.

web3 doesn't get rid of centralization (servers) at all, not even close, that's just hand wavy marketing, web3 ought to be thought of as an extension of the web, not a fundamental change.

To anyone else who is actually open minded and curious web3 is a map or an extension from the web as it is to a web that incorporates smart contracts, NFTs, cryptocurrency, and distributed ledgers into the everyday web. Simple to explain, this is the new functionality.

Imagine the film Ready Player One, when you are in the VR AR metaverse, and you want to get a new jacket for your avatar, and then take it to another app, being able to buy an NFT from one website inside the metaverse to take it into a game in another metaverse node (website)

Ready Player One interoperability, bringing items from one web app to another in the web metaverse is what web3 supports.

"the most important factor is the location" virtual locations tied to specific domains do actually matter to people. the location is the association, how many people pay to join an association, a club, a network, that's the value of virtual land.

There is no time limit to the perceived value of association with a club, a group, real life property, virtual property, a sports team, a club for fans of a team, an association for an institution, a club for a VR magazine, Virtual Land that doubles as membership in a club, etc

If one adult tires of their membership in some virtual land based neuroscience institute they can sell their membership land to another interested adult. In that sense the perception of value of virtual land does not necessarily have any end.

My point was that even if an individual person loses interest in a club or in a virtual property, there may be someone else who will be interested in it next year, and so it can be resold, or given to descendents in a will, or in a trust.

If the club or virtual land is so uninteresting the first place that everyone in the world simultaneously loses interest after just one year well that's a design flaw on the part of the club/virtual land promoters.

The point is that maintaining interest in the club or virtual land is the job of the club/land designers, just like with any club, the fact that its virtual land is incidental to the fact that people pay to be in associations. Ex: The Long Now Institute or the Foresight Institute

An argument you can make to yourself is that had you designed your clubs like more successful organizations, and done the things those organizers do, your clubs would have lasted longer.

"The answer to this question is simple. Decentralized, censorship-resistant ownership. This opens up a bunch of new possibilities and efficiencies."

I should make a new diagram to clarify a few things, there is something missing from this diagram, yes you can compare the diagrams, but the take away should be that web3 is a concept map extending web function, its not bs


Raul Miller
@raudelmil
·
11m
"Points of failure" does not equate to "weak points".

It's more akin to "moving parts".

Physical systems sometimes fail. If a removing a machine from the system causes it to fail, that is a point of failure.
Raul Miller
@raudelmil
·
9m
There has been a *lot* of engineering devoted to making the internet robust in the face of machine outages.
Micah Blumberg
@worksalt
·
2m
Web3 is not adding centralized points of failure. That's a misunderstanding. This is a proposed map of possible extensions from the existing web to the blockchain, smart contracts, NFTs, etc. It's not centralizing and it's not adding new failure points that do not already exist.
Micah Blumberg
@worksalt
Replying to 
@worksalt
 
@raudelmil
 and 
@jbensnyder
If you have a web app that is depending on an additional server, and that additional server goes down, well you should have a contingency plan for that, but you can't say that web3 is inherently adding new failure points. That's up to your network architecture design.

"A high availability "web server" might actually be a farm of identical web server machines (behind a CDN) with another farm in another hosting location available as fail over. Similar for high availability web apps."

It's not true. We needed to have a better ledger that was inflation resistant, we needed to have this universal receipt system called NFT, we needed to have smart contracts that can exist with only virtual institutions,  web3, webxr, webgpu are foundations for the metaverse.

Hi Marina, Gary, and Alla,

During the call we explored many different possible ways that we could work together. There were a lot of different ideas that different people shared for each one of us to think about. I think there are probably still more ideas to consider for a possible collaboration. This week I have been thinking of one particular idea that I am surprised I did not mention during the call.

I have an ENTP Visionary or Leadership personality. Maybe Myer's Briggs isn't meant to be taken seriously anymore but I feel like I have the most value to contribute to a team when I am charting our a new course for the entire company. I can imagine whole companies from the macro scale to the microscale. 

I want to be the CEO of Layer Technologies. I want to plan, strategize, and communicate at every level of the company. 

I have imagined many layers for the future of Layer actually beyond what we spoke about today.

So we have Layer Technologies today which is going to provide artists with the ability to put artwork on chain as an NFT with a right click, and you can store it on your cloud.

Your interest was in having ready made 3D Virtual Reality and Augmented Reality Galleries for Artists to License to you. These could be designer galleries. What I mean is that the gallery itself can be art. Art that features art.

So it does appeal to me the idea that I can be an artist of galleries, that are themselves NFT's that other people can license to use for their own photos, this is a similar idea to putting a webpage template onchain.

However Gary added something to the effect that Layer could still build their own galleries to replace the galleries that I am creating.

Okay that sounds weird because in one breadth there is a good contract, and in another breath it sounds like someone is already planning to replace the other person.

Well I could also replace Layer, I could easily write smart contracts, that make it as simple as possible for people to turn their art into an NFT and then store it on my cloud server. I could do this because I'm a developer and there is a ton of open source software out there already that would enable me to get started.

but I don't want to do everything by myself and I don't want to think in terms of okay let me buy up whatever services and products I can temporarily until I can replace them with my own. That is what Google did to Yelp, they joined forces with Yelp, until they could replace Yelp, with Google extracting all the value they could from the relationship with Yelp. There are countless stories from Microsoft, Facebook, Apple, Amazon, and others of bigger companies either trying to hire or replace smaller companies, by duplicating their products, to prevent the emergence of competitors. Society ends up with FAANG, 5 or 6 technology companies that dominant over all others, and innovation is stifled.

I want to chart a course for Layer because with Layer technologies I see a whole new giant emerging inbetween the other giants. 

In the news you can see the Epic Games, the CEO of Unreal Engine is talking about his long term vision for the Metaverse, that he has had for decades, and how he finally has all the pieces in place to make it.

There is another big VR technology company that I am under embargo with as a news person (so I can't tell you until the embargo lifts) that is also now creating a Metaverse, and they also have all the technology in place.

If you have seen the movie Ready Player One, the OASIS the virtual world, that is one idea of what the Metaverse or Matrix could look like and be like.

Between what Epic Games is doing and what this other company I can't name right now is doing the Metaverse is going to look better than the movie.

This Metaverse I think will depart from Ready Player One, Sword Art Online, The Matrix, and the book Snow Crash in one super important way, and that is that this Metaverse is going to blend seemlessly into our read reality.

A digital mixed reality will blend with our everyday reality, and the timeline for that is less than 10 years, but each year you are going to see us getting closer what I am describing I think.

I mentioned that I'm the admin of Deep Learning on Facebook which has 150,000 members, also Virtual Reality News (20k members I think), Oculus Quest (25k members), Oculus Link Creative Community, SteamVR (30k members)

I'm starting on a road that will create an open-source programming community that will have every Oculus Quest owner, every VR headset owner, making their own page that connects to these massive groups, I'm starting my own version of the metaverse.

There is nothing in Unreal Engine or in Unity, or in Blender or Cinema 4D that cannot also be brought to WebXR in time.

What I am building is a channel to bring a flood of new customers into a metaverse that we create. This is like the days of GMAIL before GMAIL had its first customer, each customer is going to get their own GMAIL account with us, except it's called a Layer NFT account, and they will use this to message other users on the same network.

This is why it is my vision to join with Layer, to be the CEO, to chart a vision for the company, to turn Layer into one of the top technology companies in the world, I wish to provide the services of a CEO to help guide everyone to this vision.

So that each of us, Gary, Marina, Alla, and myself has a billion dollars next to your name. Just like the original executives of Facebook, Apple, Amazon, Netflix, Google, Microsoft and other companies have now.

That's my big idea. I don't want to partner temporarily only to replace each other later. I want to partner long term, to help us all get to the goal we all want to reach.

That is why I am and was interested. If we don't get to do this, would I consider being a gallery designer? haha. I can think about it, but no promises. In the end these are just ideas that we talked about. We may have different ideas next week. I really like Layer Technologies because Cloud Services is a money making sector. Amazon, Microsoft, Octane and other companies are making bank providing cloud services. It takes a lot of Chutzpah to start a new company in what is really a highly competitive cash-cow sector. My virtual reality and augmented reality demos, on top of layer, as an integral part of the layer business model, would help sell the company to investors. You may say well the phrase "cloud services" sells itself to investors, I mean I was onboard the minute I heard the description of layer, but when it comes to NFT, smart contracts, and cryptocurrency, having large amounts of users using your product, because you have a well defined use case with working technology demos and a strategy with a reputable partner (in a CEO) who knows the AR VR AI and Neurotech industries, well I think that upgrades you in the minds of investors, your valuation goes up. Just my humble opinion.

Have a nice day. Even if we don't get to go in what I consider the ideal route for cooperation I think each of us will be fine. Thanks again for the meeting.

/////////////////////////////////////////
Additional details:
So imagine now that I have in section 1 a few new proposals for how the human mind works, including some amazing ideas based on new research that I only recently thought of, and it is likely that some of which may turn out to be incorrect, and it is likely I have misunderstood some of the parts of what I have studied, but this is okay.

The reason its okay is that the main idea I want to share with people is general enough that even if it turns out that some of the details of mechanical operations of the brain that I am describing are incorrect, in terms of the mechanical operations of the brain, the type of hypothesis that I am sharing is a new "outside in" type of hypothesis that may still be valuable to other brain researchers, and is somewhat invariant to some of the details (but not completely, the mechanisms I am describing would have to exist in a different form).

In the other two sections which are not directly about brain function but still touch on the topic I am similarly in the stage of ordering and organizing content that I have already written.

Research for the book:
Anyone can see that on social media I have shared a lot of brain related books, papers, and images, part of it is stuff I want to see later, most of it is stuff that will not be referenced in the book I am writing at all, these past months I have been keeping many of my most important references that I am writing about in the book close to my heart.

So a look at my social media shares will NOT give you any real clues to the contents of the book, which is about stuff that I have not been sharing.

To explain in more detail what I have also been doing is going through a ton of brain research related books, research papers, videos and other media to check and expand upon each area of my hypothesis, and to find the best references for my arguments either for or against.

This is another situation where there is no way for me to get through all the research available before the book comes out. So I am trying hard to canvas a lot of the recent ideas and read a lot of the best books and the best articles and stuff that is especially relevant to what I am writing about but as with my notes I will effectively have to grab what I can for now and include more research in future editions of the book.

Even if the multitude of ideas that I put forth about how human consciousness might work turn out to be incorrect the arguments that I will make will include citations (peer reviewed research), references to brain research related books & articles, as well as diagrams and art. 

So if it turns out that I am not correct about some of the key components of how the human brain works the book should still have a lot of value to offer the interested reader in terms of the information it brings together, all the references, the links & analogies I make between different topics in different industries, and the mapping of major research efforts, major companies, major articles, major books, major new emerging technologies, and so on with my notes on all of that.

Early in 2021 I wrote the massive article called "WebAR Wearable Digital Fashion NFT, Bio-Sensors, 3D DNN Shape Completion, Animations, Gan Synthesis" and another article called "Digital Fashion, Art, NFT, AR, VR, WebXR, 3D Deep Learning, BCI, and the future native digital economy." I realized that I now had the experiential qualities needed to organize a massive 300 page book. You can find these articles and more at VRMA.io

Like those two articles my book will cross industries, from neuroscience, to virtual reality, to brain computer interfaces, and machine learning. If you look at all the articles on that page you will see that I have written about medical imaging, deep learning, and yes some of that content will be referenced in the book.

I hope to use this book as a reference point for discussions on clubhouse, with the community of brain researchers, both neurologists and medical imagers, as well as with deep learning enthusiasts. The book will add value to my articles because if someone likes an article that I write they will be able to look at who I am and that will tell them that I'm the author of this book, which they can read if they want, to know more about the topics that I pay close attention to.

The concepts in the book will serve as the foundation for the creation of new 2D & 3D virtual reality & augmented reality art, NFT's, as well as WebXR based AR & VR experiences, as well as the content for events, merchandise, and for me personally the book will serve as an introduction to people I haven't met yet, so they understand the scope of what I focus on and therefore they will gain insight into what they might collaborate with me on.

I was hoping to have the book finished by the first of November. Then I broke my arm, and that was really difficult to deal with over the past month. I only said publically that my goal was November, but I am now leaning towards the end of November. At the very least I will put up a pre-order listing on Amazon.com in November, and if I have a pre-order up in November I can put the launch or ship date sometime after that to give myself some extra time if that is needed. I'm not giving up on having this book done by November however. I think I can do it.
/////////////////////////////////////////////////////

I am really having a next level awakening A***! Seeing and understanding all of reality in a new way. It is as if I had taken psychedelic drugs but I have not.

"A venue inside the Devil's Acre" imagine taking over the space currently occupied by Node to create a fancy private lounge. It's like the rainforest cafe, with lots of darkness, myst, thunder & lightning, but with psychedelic art everywhere. People come for drinks, events, but also for semi-private spaces by reservation, that they can order from but with the most delicate interaction that does not involve the waiter making eye contact, or looking at anything. They see nothing. There is an area outside the booth that they ring to let you know they are coming, and another ring when they leave so you can get your food, or otherwise there is some tube or robotic mechanism that transfers your order. I like that, its a no human contact venue, people arrive, they wait in a chamber until a unique path to a unique booth is created for them. Or its a circular room or actually they are just given a room number. But the food is left in a cart outside the door and then 3 knocks as they leave. But they could order food from grubhub, so they are paying to rent the private table. Grubhub is trained to leave the meal outside the door or into a food mailbox that is in the door.