a0108z ctpr
(graph) book disclaimer:
I don't have a PhD in any topic. To avoid student debt, when I was younger, I committed myself to self-study. However I think that if you look at the whole of human history you will find that world changing ideas can come from unexpected people in unexpected places.

This book attempts to present valid new ideas on existing topics: I did check my temperature metaphorically while writing this book because of the stream of novel ideas that occurred to me while researching this book that actually changed the direction of my narrative to a great extent compared to my original vision for the book.  I know that I am 'not suffering' from a case of mania because I have a real daily dose of humility, doubt, and a lot consideration for how to make it clear in the book what I know, what I don't know, what I'm guessing, and what can be supported with references.

Any of the ideas in the book could be incorrect. I may have misinterpreted some of the things that I studied, and some of the ideas might seem valid but may turn out to not work mathmatically, or because of some existing scientific fact that I overlooked. 

Given the extremely novel nature of the ideas that I am presenting I felt that it would be unsafe to discuss the drafts of the book with qualified experts ahead of time. Otherwise I would have consulted mathematicians, neuroscientists, physicists, and others before going to print. I also thought that as a story that the books narrative would be interesting and novel enough to entertain and delight people even if some or all of the ideas turned out to be incorrect.

In one scenario I could see my research not being widely accepted & pushed to the fringe like Karl Pribram's Holographic Mind, David Bohm's holographic universe, or like The Amplituhedron Theory by --------

At worst my work could contain elementary mistakes that a consulting expert would have helped me to fix ahead of time.

At best my work becomes widely read, widely understood, and a great number of extroardinary & exciting people will move land air and sea to work with me, or to help me to achieve some of my next level goals that go beyond this book. 

I'm sorry at worst my work could be abused by fascist autocrats in a horrible way that could result in the genocide of humanity as depicted in the Terminator films or the subjugation/enslavement of humanity to the machines like the Matrix Films