a0113z ctpr
(oscillat, field, boson)
The law of electricity, inversely is the square of the distance

Gravity is not electrical force, its a time wave in the electrical force that is the inverse of mass

So the configuration pattern of the electric field warps and ripples with formations that are gravity waves.

The gravity is the result of the electromagnetic field being warped into a spatial expansion an oscillating object that represents something like the inverse of its velocity and density which is like space crunched and hotter because its moving relatively faster in time

So imagine that a particle can ossilate between being expanded in time, or expanded in space

But that while part of it is expanded in time the other part is expanded in space, so an electron is expanded space so its wider and slower, it has more space, but its opposite, the positron is an expansion of time

In a lecture called “The Law of Gravitation” Richard Feynman pointed out that people who want to believe that electricity and gravitation are the same thing will find out that electricity is much more powerful than gravity. 

The ratio of the gravitational attraction has 42 digits
The diameter of the universe and the diameter of a proton 42 digits

¼.17 x 1000000000000000000000000000000000000000000

The tremendous number of the ratio of the gravitation to the ratio of electricity is still a mystery today

But consider that attractive force between two electrons that repel is negative, and consider that when you combine a field particles together, their electric force is greater if they are aligned, and it weakens if the ions are not aligned. If gravitational force is the alignment of the electrical field then its strength can increase or decrease depending upon the alignment of the charges in that field, and the warping of space by an oscillating mass like the earth is going to have either an attractive or repulsive force depending on the trajectory of particles in it

So when you have a chaotic gravitational field, made up of the whole electromagnetic spectrum, and that includes the heat spectrum, the chemical spectrum, and mechanical acoustic wave spectrum, you are going to find a chaotic distribution of electron alignments, and the greater the chaos the more the force of electricity is diluted, the more the electrons align the greater the electrical force gets, this explains the difference between the electric force and the gravity force that we experience. A planet that was the same size but had greater density would have a much more powerful gravitational force, because its greater density means that ions are more aligned, positive charges are more aligned.

So what if we can think of light, a proton, a boson, as an electric positive and negative in compressed faster moving space

So they are oscillating around each other in time, spinning faster, the brighter, warmer relatively speaking..

The electromagnetic field of space is the result of time decoherent amplified space, 

“Even though neutral particles such as neutrons do not interact via electromagnetic forces, they do via gravitational forces.”

Neutral particles can represent space that has converged its positive & negative charges like a spinning battery, so its positive and negative charges balance out just like a rotating planet might neutralize its attractive force because it balances both positive and negative charges, and because its charges are not aligned.

The point is that you don’t need to add secret hidden graviton to explain the weaker attractive force of neutral particles, just that the amount of force has been reduced to things like its trajectory, its spin, it’s orientation, or its properties

If you consider that gravity is not electricity but a description of the force of one somewhat neutral gravitational field like earth on another somewhat neutral gravitational field like the moon, then the force between them is from the summary distribution configuration of all the electromagnetic forces adding and subtracting from one another by their activity. A planet can’t act like an electron for the same reason that mass is moving much more slowly than energy.

Mass has low frequency high amplitude inversely related to high frequency low amplitude electrons.

Mass is absorbing electrons and spitting out protons,

Earth is absorbing electrons from the air?

Releasing heat?

I have a hypothesis about quantum non-local effects but it's so unusual that I have no idea at the moment if it's really true or not. Same thing with the hypothesis about the cosmos. I'm not sure if it's true but it's interesting enough to include in the book.
