a0123z ctpr
Note created on Sep 20, 2012
(graph, dendrite, synap, cereb, cortex) electrons transmitting their shape

This was a series of replies to my neurons pass their shape theory from a long time ago. I stripped out everything except my own comments. Originally written and shared under a fictional alias

ANN Theory is not robust enough to dismiss "Neurons are Programs transmitting their shape theory" That's the point. ANN Theory can do some impressive things, but at the moment that does not include ruling out other theories. ;)

Yes Brainwaves consist of many neurons firing.

The electron particle/wave in the neural pulse, has all the same primary properties of a brainwave, including phase, amplitude, hz, look, regardless of how you measure it what's really being transferred is the "potential difference", like a negative, like a camera snapshot, A SDR SNAPSHOT that includes the minute variations in the cells dendrites. This effects the synaptic branch in particular way that is different from the previous time the neuron fired.

This is a variable limit, depending on the many factors, including the resetting of potassium and ion channels, some neurons can only fire once a second, others can fire once every 1/1000th of a second. Different neurons fire at different rates depending usually on how high up they are in the cerebral cortex hierarchy.

So you say, but as you noted in a couple of comments down this is still an open question that has not been proven either way.

does not eliminate the notion that a single neuron's axon emission has a distinct spatial/temporal meaning that is a program representing critical changes to the Neuron's whole structure.

I meant to describe the properties of an electrical wave/particle, including amplitude, hz, phase, spin etc... but the description of the particle is incidental. The key notion is that it's the transmittion of a "potential difference" representing the changes to the neurons form, including dendritic changes before and the synaptic changes after the axon fires.

According so most models, but you actually said that AFTER reading this link I shared earlier http://www.hhmi.org/news/dan20090430.html

Brain is a heirarchy, that's not the same as small-world network, but I understand and know what you mean, your description is not new to me. Your whole brain as to be working as ONE network if it's going to integrate low level vision with high level vision with feeling with sounds, with frontal inhibitions, with motor cortex

"Most neurons only CONNECT directly the neighboring neurons they have connections to." in neural columns, but the neural columns are connected in areas

CONNECTION AND INFLUENCE ARE TWO DIFFERENT THINGS

How do you explain a coordinate brainwave pattern that is sequence of neurons firing that are not regionally associated?

An electrical wave from tCDS will trigger brainwaves, and those electromagnetic brainwaves are so big they are shooting outside your skull so we can read them with EEG MEG HEG etc... This means these electromagnetic brainwaves can trigger other neurons to fire, even if they are not directly connected to neurons that previously fired. This allows neurons to influence other neurons that are on the other side of the brain without any direct path of association.

Direct connections are not the only means of influence and communication. If an electron can represent a snap shot of a unique topography (potential difference) then this topography (a spatial representation of number sets and functions, ie a program) can go anywhere it needs to go in the brain, regardless of whether it has a direct connection. So in this event the brain network can be redescribed as sort of internet of spacial temporal messages that are each a differential calculus represented by a whole neuron's changes, where the dendritic branch represents the change in Y and the synaptic branch represents the change in X, and the axon represents the division.

 
