a0130z ctpr
(synap, oscillat, field, graph, criterial causation)

I guess part of my memory was from the future imposing itself on the past.

Finally he says: "Yes dear we are so but that was discussion about polychronus neural model and i was intented honorly to be my dear friend hope we communicate on nice scientific advances in this wonderful field. Thank you very much again Dr"

The reason I'm sharing this, is because it is amusing in retrospect. It's backwards causation humor.

It's the rational that comes after that makes it interesting the in first place.

The tenth chapter of "The neural basis of free will: Criterial Causation" and in the Appendix, Peter Tse covers a broad spectrum of views related to mental causation. There are a few different ways to think about how quantum mechanics could or could not effect mental causation. He covers those ways in his chapter as well. Tse dismisses the notion that consciousness could be quantum, because the brain is too warm for quantum coherence, (the temperature would scramble the "you" frequency). He also thinks that indeterministic quantum fluctuations could interfere with the timing of a neural oscillation just enough to make a human unpredictable to any machine that was not able to simulate or predict all the quantum noise in a person's brain. That's the boring part.

Whats interesting is that there was one possibility that received the smallest mention, the possibility of backwards causation, and the fact that particles larger than common brain molecules have been proven to behave like waves in the double slit experiment, just like photons. This is what he says:

"According to Feynman
’ s (1965) path integration account, the wavelike aspects of a particle
can be modeled as arising from the integration of all possible particle paths
between two points, such as the emitter and the photographic plate in the
double-slit experiment. Both of these accounts seem to imply that the path
that a particle realizes is in part a function of its (future) possibilities, which
can interfere and sum with one another. This seems to imply that what
can happen in the future influences what particle paths can be realized
now. Even though I did not make reference to possible quantum domain
effects in discussing pseudo-backward causation in time ( § 6.17), a case
could be made. Quantum nonlocality is so strange that particles ’ paths can
even be influenced by physical events at locations through which they
have no possibility of passing, such as between the two slits (Aharonov &
Bohm, 1959; Peshkin & Tonomura, 1989 ). Thus, although I think it is
important to remain skeptical about the role of quantum domain coherency
effects in neural processing, it is equally important not to be dismissive
of the possibility that certain events involve unusual quantum effects." 

He also says this:

"§ A1.10 I must also express skepticism toward my skepticism, however,
because it has been shown that even massive molecules such as C 60 (Fullerene,
molecular weight 720.6468 g/mol; diameter ~0.7nm) exhibit interference
effects when passed through a double slit one molecule at a time
( Arndt et al., 1999 ; Nairz et al., 2003 ). By comparison, neurotransmitters
are typically much smaller than this (e.g., glutamate: 147.13g/mol; GABA:
103.12g/mol; serotonin: 176.22g/mol; glycine: 75.01g/mol) and the ions
that pass through ionotropic receptors are even smaller (sodium: 22.99g/
mol; calcium: 40.08g/mol; potassium: 39.10g/mol). The diameter of an
open NMDA receptor pore is only 5.5 Å ( Villarroel et al., 1995 ), whereas
cation-selective ligand-gated ion channels range between 7 Å for acetylcholine
receptors in frog muscles ( Dwyer et al., 1980 ; Huang et al., 1978 ) and
7.6 Å for 5HT 3 receptors in neuroblastoma cells ( Yakel et al., 1990 ; Yang,
1990), and anion selective GABA and glycine receptors in neurons range
from 5.2 to 5.4 Å ( Bormann et al., 1987 ). By way of comparison, slits that
are orders of magnitude larger generate interference effects when electrons
are passed through them (50x0.3 μ ; J ö nsson, 1974 ). Given their small size
( Rambhadran et al., 2010 ; Salussolia et al., 2011 ), NMDA receptor can be
packed together much more closely than this, which, if simultaneously
open, as occurs during bursting, would create the conditions for two- or
multislit interference. So certainly wave-particle effects could in principle
be expressed among neurotransmitters in the synapse. The key question is
whether such effects matter in the functioning of a neuron."


