a0155z ctpr
(phase field, oscillat)
If you have the open github version of this book please share the book and recommend that people donate to the Self Aware Networks Institute for Artificial Neurology, Medical Research, Brain Interfaces, so that I can continue my work. I would like to build a WebXR version of this book that expands on all the ideas presented in this book with references to both historical works and the latest science & technology.

Extropic Oscillations increase total entropy overtime as they dissipate. If they sync the total entropic signal is magnified in an area, its like 

Bose-Einstein Condensate

Imagine a spherical mass like earth is creating like an electromagnetic Boss-Einstein Condensate in terms of causing the invisible lines spacetime eminating from the sphere to converging together

maybe its broadcasting out this broad vertical wave and its causing other larger objects nearby to fall into.

I am suggesting that the curvature of spacetime might be the electric & magnetic fields of the earth reacting to the magnified signal of earths EM phase field reflections

the combined reflection of oscillating mass might multiple like a laser like the Bose-Einstein Condensate

the idea is that its not directly attractive, its increasing the chances that something 

If the breath of god causes the original oscillation of the cosmos it creates a paradox because that breath was probably a bose-einstein condensate, and if it existed at the beginning of the universe it was not first, it was the result of combined oscillations in Synchrony

Rather I imagine that the original state of the universe as being a single oscillation between location existence and the velocity existence which is the interval of time during which it doesn't exist in a location. As it decayed it would divide into smaller oscillations, a whole quantum field of them, and they could grow, combine, and form complex structures like people, planets, stars, dust, and water.

When I was young, because of the bible I believed that dreams contained powerful and essential visions of the future so I trained myself to remember my dreams and to be able to articulate them well, I think this is a contributing reason to why I can remember and describe many of my psychedelic experiences as well

the human brain is literally a dissitipative system in a quantum phase field, but the descriptions of the calculations it does are perhaps far removed from our descriptions of how quantum computation works

The book is largely already written and the final pieces are falling into place.

I wish and I hope for healing around the world, so everyone can heal from past and present trauma. So that human beings are not unconsciously causing harm to others and themselves because of the reverbations their actions inevitably create because your likely behaviors can be deduced with artificial intelligence eventually.

I would describe my kundalini awakening through pain as seeing the infinite horizontal scope of both my consciousness and reality.

I decided to ride an electric unicycle and I loved it. It was really hard to learn, it is really dangerous to ride any personal electric vehicle, but also skateboarding, biking, all sports, and even going outside for a walk is extremely dangerous and risky. Up until that accident I wanted to build an augmented reality game that people could play while riding an electric unicycle, after the accident I realized that anything that distracts you or pulls on your attention too much is potentially a precursor to a bad accident. A minor accident in your car and you walk away from it fine. To survive you need to pretend that everyone around you is going to act like a complete idiot and do something that endangers your survival, because mistakes can happen, but you need to have a heighted awareness of it because by moving faster you are increasing the odds and chances of a potential accident.

