a0187z ctpr
May 1st, 2012 
A debate about the physics of neural activity vs free will. My argument from 2012 boils down to 'if you go against preprogramming in your own brain, that is a competing area of your brain, that is acting consistent with the laws of physics, to physically overcome the other area of your brain that you consider to be the pre-programmed area"

Micah Blumberg
the point made here is that competiting neuro patterns will (options in your mind) will physically race to inhibit the other neuro pattern (when neurons fire they inhibit nearby neurons resulting in a cleaner signal) the result (what you believe, say, or do) is determined by physics, you cannot chose to defy the physics that governs your brains mental state. To think otherwise is magical thinking

Bill Harris:
"(A)Fraid not. The one thing you CAN do is go against the preogramming in your brain. You just have to be aware enough to observe it as it happens."

Micah Blumberg
when you say ‘fraid not’ are you saying you can defy the physics that determines the next neural pattern your going to have? the impulse to go against the programming in your brain is ‘the competiting neural sequence trying to dominate another neural sequence’

Chewy Productions Says: Your comment is awaiting moderation. 
May 1st, 2012 at 10:24 am
1. We are not going to be conscious of the overwhelming majority of neural firing patterns, just the grand summaries, the peaking news headlines, the most glorious waves!

2. What you want to change your mind your mind to is the action of another competiting neural sequence.

3. So lets reinterpret the mystical “thought/choice energy” as “a physical neuron firing sequence” that is physically firing in an attempt to dominate other “physical neuron firing sequences” or “thought energies”

4. If your mind was not a physical physics governed process then how could something like holosync ever work?

5. You arrived at every thought because of the physics guiding every previous physical thought, every cell in your mind working as well as it does interacting with the full ecosystem of life experience.

6. We fall towards our path, every word we encounter is merely part of our path, its a myth to think that any preponderance of possible paths will lead to anything other than what is already most likely given the physics of things in the unconscious mind, and its interaction with the microscopic world of sensory data patterns.

Tags:
  choice, killed