a0208z ctpr

(thalamus, oscillate, fourier) I think consciousness (binding of sensory and abstract data) is the building, decoding, and reconstruction of multi-dimensional waves like the gabor fourier wave transforms in non-linear loops (what's a nonlinear loop? haha). The vibration of persistent oscillation is a self aware hallucination because it's sensing waves even as it builds data from waves. The dual processing of building & sensing waves (fourier wave transforms for example) gives rise to interdimensional awareness on the canvas of holonomic dendritic arbors united by neuroplastic sequences of brain activity including rich clubs and thalamus activity.  

A computer can assemble a gabor fourier transform, but the transform isn't being sensed by itself or by other gabor fourier transforms, the transform isn't sensing and being updated by what it is sensing.

The canvas of consciousness isn't just integrated information, it's the information in the structure of wave forms that are encoding and decoding themselves, meaning the wave forms are sensing themselves.

The computer integrates information with it's propositional rule based algorithms, the information itself is essentially counted by transisters, and then presented or decoded to the user.

It isn't self aware because it isn't creating sequences of wave patterns that are decoding and encoding themselves in non-linear loops

the interwining of conscious and unconscious is so pervasive its like a red & white candy cane, they are mutually causative, like a conscious result sets a new unconscious reflex, a conscious result of the new reflex sets a newer reflex, red white candy cane, one causes the other, and the other causes a new one

My first point is that there isn't a set time between an unconscious decision, and a conscious realization of that decision. It could be between milisecond, and 12 seconds, or maybe 33 years. Secondly the causality of consciousness does not have to be active in the present, it can be passive in the present but potentially still causative toward some future plan to take some action or reaction, at a later date, location, or contigent circumstance. Consciousness can seem passive but as a physical effect it would be absurd to rule it as permanently outside the chain of cause and effect. Or perhaps you argue you can have a brain create a conscious effect that has no impact on the physical activity of the brain? Do you argue that neurons do not detect information, I mean pure non-physical massless, energyless, velocity free information like coincidences, patterns between moving things. If neurons detect coincidence, (they do) then with milisecond timing the nuances of whatever information your thinking is not exclusively passive, its being sensed by neurons, if its the specific information pattern, neurons will fire in specific sequences at specific frequencies. Information patterns cause neurons to fire, is your consciousness not information at least?
