a0224z ctpr
old note from 2013
Micah Blumberg
quantum mechanics are involved in every physical interaction, but that does not make it an obvious solution to a "metaphysical mind" as you put it. I think the information that makes up the human experience consists of synchronizing coincidence patterns in the higher phasic gamma frequencies and inhibiting decoherence patterns disrupting the lower frequency tonic firing of the aware mind. Yes this process involves electric-chemical interactions, but the quantum mechanic may be as mechanical in the brain as a drive shaft is in a car, no reason at this point to assume the drive shaft is conscious.
9 hours ago · Edited · Like

Chase
 i do not believe that the interactions themselves are conscious, merely that they on top of those conventionally considered provide for the possibility for enough information to be processed by such a system that classical mechanics can not account for alone.
your theory is solid and actually reinforces what im really trying to get at, we can measure these patterns of synchronizing and decoherence through applying quantum phenomena
9 hours ago via mobile · Unlike · 1

Chase 
also those are just some possibilities ive considered that could be used as a starting point for beginning to understand how such metaphysical phenomena could arise from a physical system, they arent things that i am saying are necessarily true
9 hours ago via mobile · Like

Micah Blumberg 
Well on the one hand I am saying that metaphysics is information and information in the brain is tempo-spatial coincidence detection, but on the other hand quantum mechanics may be essential to the brains metaphysical calculation because the phasic disruptive bursting of high frequency gamma waves contrasting with the tonic regularity of lower frequency waves may be a literal metaphysical expression as scattering amplitudes, so if you compare the high hz phasic Gamma with spherical waves, and the low hz tonic with plain waves, you might be able to use something like the amplituhedron to calculate the metaphysic state. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scattering_amplitude  


Chase
how would you say that brainwave patterns are actually related to the thoughts or conscious states associated with them and how are they associated? like representations of your conscious perspective of logical activity? emotional activity? both?
about a minute ago

Micah
my hypothesis is that brainwaves are the residual after effects of the thought process, electromagnetic brainwave activity is perhaps like blood activity in the brain, dissipating energy and heat. It gives us a window into what was being thought, it serves as an indicator, as it can be read by EEG (and blood can be read by FMRI) 