a0239z ctpr
Note from Aug 19, 2012
(observer) Observer false: A

Is observation an action by an actor whose name is the observer?

For a thought experiment you assume a singular observer, in each person, but suppose this observation is actually expectation.

You have an experience, then you expect another, you've had so many experiences that maybe your not really sure what to expect next. So instead of saying its a specific expectation, you go with a more general term, and you say it's observation.

Observation is your neurology automatically attempting to predict the next sequence of events, you call it awareness, artificial intelligence experts call it memory-prediction

Every neuron in your brain is expecting, 84 billion expectations firing all the time, there is no singular observer. Just billions of expectations.

There is no biological truth to "one see-er", it's a fiction, a social contract, an idea, it's not real. a convention, an artificial distinction, you have two eyes, two nostrils, two ears, why not assume that every person is two people? or believe that every person is half a person, until they meet their other half. the "observer" is a mythical construct, lacking an existence beyond the concept of the observer, it's a concept, not a reality

Your eyeball has millions of sensors, so you could say you are millions of sensors in each eye, I mean if you need your identity to be the observer, it's not really, your not "the" mythical "observer" you know. your not that

Individuality is a concept, like the observer, its a distinction, from dualism, dualism is in some sense artificial, its the map of reality, but it isn't reality, it's not the territory. Individuality as a concept is not a complete illusion, but its also not completely real. Without the mind, there would be no such artificial concept as an individual, or an observer, but these concepts 'do not' have to have an objectively real reality to be useful. knowing that the observer is not really real, and knowing that the individual is not really real means that these concepts are no longer able to serve as the emperor's false clothing. The naked self cannot be clothed by any concept. You are not that.

your not the artificial map of reality that describes what you are, your more than your mind will ever know, but see that is a trick, because it is the mind that forms a model of the mind and the world around the mind, the world around the mind is a prediction in the mind, and yet the real you is the real cosmos outside the mind, this is very tricky to understand

everything you know about the real world is a prediction in your mind that is informed by the real world world, you are the real world not the prediction in your mind, so in a sense you can only see the part of you that is a reflection of the real you

the world I see is a sparse reflection of the real reality that is the whole me

the mind itself can be incorrect, but you cannot be incorrect, you are objective, the mind is perpectually orienting itself using an overwhelming number of redundant guesses, in each moment, based on previous experiences, anytime the mind is producing something unpleasant that isn't you, thats a mind out of attunement. 

remember you can't see the real you, not through the mind

you are pure happy joy
you love your true self so much, the mind loves your true self so much

be uninterested in unhappy thoughts, be apathetic toward uphappy notions or anything unpleasant, all negative things are boring

let the mind know this

then it will like a baby, stop playing the games you don't care about, and start playing the games you do care about.

stop being interested in wall streets prediction of doom, find it boring, then in boredom and apathy you find it easy to focus on what you really want, on whats joyful, juicy, and fun.

Imagine you are a three dimensional diamond like polygon with eight sides, and each edge is golden fire like the sun, imagine you are objective, you are true, you are unchanging, you are eternal, then imagine that inside this is a cascading eight dimensional fractal, that includes a cosmos, every brain, including your brain, and inside your brain is a concept of you as "a three dimensional diamond like polygon with eight sides, and each edge is golden fire like the sun, imagine you are objective, you are true, you are unchanging, you are eternal" now this concept is faulty, its a mere sketch of what you are. Yet this brain is your window into grasping what you are. Your brain estimate's that your brain at the most captures .0000000000000001 of what is actually real. everything you know about your golden fiery self is a flawed prediction in this mind, you know you are truth, perfect, divine, objectively real, and at the same time, you know your brain needs to have a very partial & narrow view of the whole of what you are. the brain has a job coordinating a specific angle on your vision, in this case, the brain that does not know so much serves as a highly coordinated sharply defined brush stroke, in the fractal artwork of your divine mathematical calculation. So you are not your brain, and yet all that you know about your real self is from a model in your brain. A model that is wholly informed by you, always being an incomplete map of you, never the whole reality of how amazing you are.

it turns out that the ideas of what the left and right brain each do are completely wrong, both sides of the brain get involved in every kind of task
8 minutes ago · Like · 1

http://www.lifesitenews.com/news/archive/ldn/2009/jul/09072902

Girl with Half Her Brain Missing Lives Normal Life: Researchers Amazed | LifeSiteNews.com
www.lifesitenews.com
Daily news, articles, links, and information on politics, abortion, euthanasia, religion, family life, and entertainment.
5 minutes ago · Like · 1 · 

there are a few people in this world who are either born with half a brain, or half half of their brain removed, and what we find out, over and over again, is that the remaining hemisphere takes over the functions of the other hemisphere. you can meet someone with literally 50 percent of their brain missing and never guess it, because half a brain is more than you need to live a normal life
2 minutes ago · Like

although interestingly if you cut a brain in half, you will literally create two independent personalities, one person, becomes split into two souls

this might be disconcerting to think of yourself as modular.

the mind is a spatial metaphor, and like thoughts, dreams, and ideas it is a conceptual structure, consisting of connections between cells, the connections form the concept, between associated memories (in individual cells) so a concept represents sort of a larger memory, a distributed representation of something across many cells in a spatial and temporal firing pattern.

the mind forms these conceptual models of associations between sensory memories as a reaction to life experience, and they become your expectation, your prediction for what is going to happen next, you may have 84 billion predictions, aka expectations going at any given moment, for simplicity sake, we summarizing this varying number to one, and we call it "the observer"

the whole cosmos that you know, that you think is outside you, is actually a model of the cosmos, a spatial/temporal (space/time) metaphor, a prediction of the world, a map of reality, but not the actual territory of the world.

"in Advaita Vedanta, "Self" with the capital "S" means the Atma, or God Consciousness. "self" with the small "s" is the ego, the personality. Many people get this confused, especially Western Non-Dualists who use the word to only mean the personality. Being told, "there is no "self," when the see the word "Self" they get into a conundrum about that, "there is no self at all." Thus they believe that the Vedantist is saying that there is a "God Personality," which is not the case at all. The idea is that what you are, the existence that you experience in every moment, is itself God! Its not some dismebered nothingness. Its what you are." these are all concepts, none of these concepts of "Self" can be "Self" they are all false

when we split a brain in half, surgically, it becomes like two souls, "Self" appears to be modular. People born with half a brain, or having lost 50 percent of their brain at an early age are almost exactly the same as everyone else. You don't even need more than half a brain to have a normal life. Instead of believing in a grand unified self, an all encompassing consciousness, an observer, I realize instead there are perhaps billions and trillions of tiny observations, expectations, and predictions, a symphony concert of brainwave activity. Advaita Vedanta gives us a false concept of Self, an imaginary thing, a lie.

every thought, feeling, sight, sound, concept, model, notion, everything is encoded as a prediction, a memory that becomes a prediction for what could happen next

‎"Concept without experience is empty, a game of the mind. Experience leads to knowing." the mind only makes concepts from life experiences this is a one way street, its not like there are two options here.

I don't mean the "personality self" is a lie, I mean the sense of a holistic unified consciousness, a singular observer entity, the observers are never not at least two

in the human mind more like never not at least two billion
forever expanding ♥ always incomplete
