a0231z ctpr
(oscillat, cortex) neo mind cycle dream (In part because of this dream I named my company neo mind cycle, and I dedicated my life to solving three problems
1. neural lace aka nerve gear aka the ultimate brain computer interface.
2. artificial cortex to expand the human mind into the computer
3. sentient artificial brains.
9 years later I'm writing a book that is a small summary of the things I have learned so far. I believe that this book is a major step towards accomplishing the 3 goals that I have dedicted my life to solving.
Neo Mind is a reference to the Neo Cortex (The name was also inspired by both Numenta & The Matrix film series), and Cycle is a reference to oscillations and my dream below.

The dream begins below:)))  
there were two presenters
different scientists
because there are two proundly different ways to see consciousness
the first said consciousness is cycles between four areas, once it starts it continues to cycle in the four outer regions of the mind like a car wash, it stays out of the center, it only operates around the center as one continuous flow, once it starts up it keeps going
he showed a twelve point circle with a thirteenth opening, a red triangle opening to 12 or more closed (14?) triangles
the second said showed an object to which there was something continually being added to, like a limited supply of plastic or vhs tape that was going to run out. instead o like a carwash this was like an animal running, and the supply was like plastic, or it's molten material
the art with the heart that is like molten plastic the material coming to it is the stream of time, there was some material streaming from it

its like the flow in a washer machine, with a continous input from a temporary source that constantly reshapes this shape shifting flow

its a shape shifting flow that cycles around a center
a high dimensional loop (attractor)

the somewhat tragic conclusion was that for every conscious entity the tape of morphing plastic consciousness was temporary, it was already know to be something with a fixed end, unto the conscious being itself, its own end point was either known or knowable.

because its end was in the very shape of the machine itself
