a0256z ctpr
(oscillat, dendrite, neuralink, emotion, cortex) some rapid fire questions
what is the brains equivalent to a bit of information? and is it binary?
there is a metric structure to knowledge??
this metric structure lets you solve problems,

I would say that the language of cells & also of the brain is about differences in phase patterns, and the basis of a bit of information in the brain is the coincidence of phase patterns, the basis of an anti-bit in the brain is the splay state (the opposite of a coincidence, polar opposite timing) I just defined anti-bits in the context of computational biology & the human brain. HAHA

makes it possible for you to understand the relationships between different things.
grid cells & place cells explain how information is stored? different components but they have the same structure to them?
microcolumns or micro neural circuit clusters that represent separate oscillator patterns?
incorporating dendrite based predictions into neurons

if you hear the sound of a cat, you can invoke in V1 they will fire, that represent a cat
okay so he is saying that the sound of a cat in the audio cortex that will trigger the V1 to fire to represent an image of a cat, so the image of a cat in the visual cortex may trigger the audio cortex to fire, so I could call the V1 cortex to the audio cortex 

2016 Numenta paper, include contextual processing from dendrites

2. do you think neuralink devices be able to decode cortical columns, will that lead to decoding human thoughts, images, and sounds from the brain

would a neuroimager be able to tell that voting has happened?
would neuralink be able to decode cortical columns and voting by listening to individual columns and decoding them?

short term memory is happening in the activity micro-columns 
brain computation is organized via power of 2 brain computation

3. I'm thinking about a book Rhythms of the Brain, I don't know if you have read that, but do you have some predictions for how reference frame's effect the brain's oscillations in a mechanical way?
4. what is your prediction for how emotions fit into reference frames.
5. do reference frames exist on larger scales beyond what an individual column models?
the same mechanism can store knowledge in a reference frame
a coordinate by a collection of neurons is a prediction for what happens next