a0339z ctpr
Note from Sep 7, 2012
(observer, perception, cortex)
Atman is the profound wholeness, the identity of the entire cosmos and all spacetime considered as one being. That is not to say you do not also have a self defined in another context, the self aware feedback loop of you.

Truth is the only thing that has nothing to do with the adjustment of perception, truth is true regardless of subjective opinion, personal understanding, cultural framework, context, and reference point. Truth transcends the particulars of anything that does change. If one is to consider truth to be an illusion, it must be considered as the most consistent of all illusions. If the staff of truth became a snake it would eat all the snakes that became from staff's of other illusions.

it's a loop Wendy, the observer is the thought pattern making a thought pattern of the thought pattern, because that's what the neo cortex does when combined with incoming senses and out going actions, it creates loop of thought patterns about thought patterns, that circle around and around and around and around again until we die, we are the dissipative system (like tornado) that facilitates this cycle of self aka self awareness

We have a prediction of awareness, and it seems aware because this prediction is incorporating it's own development into an even higher level of awareness about itself. It evolves in our thinking as we become more aware of it, and the more aware it we become, the more aware of us it becomes, because we are like looking into the mirror of our own mind. Those with the most practice doing sitting will naturally have a cleaner mirror. It is a zen master who is often like a mirror for his student's neurosis. the observer is a complex machine, and yet it's a very straight forward mechanical process, we can put it into a machine, and people are already working on doing that, reference numenta.com

 ‎"Di Ana What a great confusion is going on in your minds." This is your disowned mind Di Ana, you are the one, the universe, all these people are inside your head right now. At least a virtual reality simulation of these people are in your head. So to be perfectly honest the confusion that you see is only in your head. No one else exists.

Tags:
  killed