a0335z ctpr
(crteria causation)
neo mind cycle books
When I started Neo Mind Cycle I was thinking about Neurofeedback as a cycle from brainwaves, into the computer, into light and sounds, into our eyes and ears, and back into brainwaves. It was a really simple idea. 

"On Intelligence by Sandra Blakeseed and Jeff Hawkins" was so influencial it has changed my life since I read it.

Thresholds of the Mind was a book that, at the time, I held in similar esteem.

At some point I decided to actually learn neuroscience, all the nitty gritty details of neurons, axons, ion channels etc...

I didn't keep up in my Neuroscience Computation Class the first year it was on Coursera so I decided to get a crash course in Neuroscience by reading something really advanced.

A book called "The Neural Basis of Free Will: Criterial Causation" 

I have never read a book so thick with concepts page after page, and links to dozens of research articles on every few pages.

Right at this moment in my life there is no book I hold in higher esteem.

I began to realize that there are cycles (feedback cycles) in the neo mind at every level from backwards propagating axon potentials to dendritic arbors, to neural circuits, to cortical thalamic loops, to regional brain activity patterns we can see with EEG

I could practically change my business name to Neo Mind Cycles (plural) and write a book to explain all this in loving detail.

In my humble opinion Peter Tse is a terrible author when compared to Douglass Hofstadter (another author whom my notes reveal that we both have read and admire) so someone should take the power of analogy and write a better book to explain the insights of cutting edge neuroscience, and I am working on that.

In considering the prep work for this project I thought back to "Thresholds of the Mind" and what it means, how it may fit into this picture, it's developmental levels of chaos and expanding awareness combined with the Neo Mind Cycles of our actual neurological mechanisms. Could his (Bill Harris: Thresholds of the Mind) work have relevance and meaning today? I'm not sure, but I think I will have to dust off an old copy and have another look at it.