a0331z ctpr
Note Created Nov 27, 2013
Jack Gallant Perceptual Object and Action Maps in the Human Brain
 http://www.youtube.com/watch?client=mv-google&gl=US&hl=en&v=u9nMfaWqkVE&feature=player_embedded&nomobile=1 
Perceptual Object and Action Maps in the Human Brain

(criteria causation, perception, eception, emotion, permotion)
Peter Tse random firing

Vijay K Rajagopal
What would motivate post-biological beings?
If they were self-aware, and were able to program themselves, I'd assume that the same evolutionary pressures that come to bear on biological systems would select the programing that led to persistence.

Matt Mahoney
We can program them to be motivated however we want. The most successful ones will be programmed to make lots of copies of themselves, fear death, and die, just like evolution programmed us.

Vijay K Rajagopal
How do you convince a complex self-aware being it needs to exist?
November 25 at 5:14am · Like

Matt Mahoney
Make random variations to the source code. Those that aren't convinced they need to exist will remove themselves from the population.
November 25 at 8:18am · Like · 1

Peter Rothman
"beyond the physical" might mean existing entirely inside virtual worlds.
November 25 at 8:20am · Like

Linda Page
the original asks what would "motivate" a non-biological entity. That doesn't necessarily mean consciousness, but it does imply some kind of "need" or imperative. I do apologize for taking this into "disembodied mind" territory.
November 25 at 11:45am · Like

Jones Murphy
Jim, how can awareness possibly be orthogonal to computing when so far, we see no awareness which is not physical, i.e. computing?
November 25 at 11:53am · Like · 1

Dick Lepre Self-preservation.
November 25 at 11:54am · Like

Jones Murphy Isomorphic is not quite the word either, in that all physicality is computation, but only certain relatively complex and highly structured kinds of physicality are computation and awareness. Much computation is not awareness, so they can't be isomorphic. There certainly appears to be a minimum level of computational complexity required to support awareness.
November 25 at 12:09pm · Like · 1

Peter Rothman It seems to be aware of the temperature. Otherwise it couldn't work.
November 25 at 12:12pm · Like

Jones Murphy By that logic, all physicality is aware, since they respond to the temperature by getting hotter and changing. So no, a thermostat ain't aware in the sense in which we normally use the word.
November 25 at 12:14pm · Like · 2

Peter Rothman Hence the need to be very careful about words like "aware". What does this actually mean? I don't really know.
November 25 at 12:20pm · Like · 1

Awareness is the state or ability to perceive, to feel, or to be conscious of ev...
See More
November 25 at 12:23pm · Like

Dick Lepre Important difference between "aware" and "self-aware."
November 25 at 12:23pm · Like · 2

Peter Rothman So, the thermostat seems to be aware of its own setting as well as the temperature. 
November 25 at 12:34pm · Like · 1

Dick Lepre I would not use the word "aware" to describe what a thermostat does any more them I would describe a thermometer as being "aware" of the temperature. These are man-made device which use physical properties pertaining to thermal expansion to serve our purposes.

If I throw a baseball through a pane of glass it breaks without being aware of what happened.
November 25 at 12:43pm · Like · 2

Linda Page I would also not say a thermostat is "aware" of temperature. Awareness implies (by definition) consciousness (and yes, different than self-awareness). A thermostat is not conscious. Even computers aren't conscious, even if they are attached to envirnomental and/or visual sensors. Yet.
November 25 at 2:17pm · Like

Jones Murphy I would not say that awareness=consciousness. Animals(and to a surprising degree plants) are aware in a way that inanimate matter is not, but it takes a brain of significant complexity to get to what we would generally consider to be consciousness.
November 25 at 2:32pm · Like

Jones Murphy Too unconscious to respond...zzz
November 25 at 2:52pm · Like · 1

Peter Rothman Is a bee aware of a flower? 

Is a protozoan aware of its prey? It does not have a nervous system at all and yet it can hunt and capture prey.

http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17227426

Biochemical prey recognition by planktonic... [Environ Microbiol. 2007] - PubMed - NCBI
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov
PubMed comprises more than 23 million citations for biomedical literature from M...
See More
November 25 at 3:04pm · Like · 1

Sergio Tarrero If it is truly advanced and truly ethical (or superethical), I would guess that it would strive to remove whatever suffering it encounters here on earth, but also care about the suffering which could be taking place in other places in the universe... thus it might make plans to go and explore, and if conscious life experiencing untold amounts of suffering were to be found, it could mitigate or remove unwanted suffering, and help those beings survive/transcend.
November 25 at 3:49pm · Like · 2

Vijay K Rajagopal But would suffering have meaning to a non-biological entity? I would think that would only be the case if it were programed to empathetic to biological systems in distress.
November 25 at 3:53pm · Like · 3

Sergio Tarrero A smart, curious post-biological sentience might casually read a lot of our (artistic and scientific) literature about emotion, suffering, pain, joy, love, etc., and strive to have such feelings itself/verself. It may also take the time and effort to carefully ponder what it ought to do in the world. When realizing the amount of suffering that takes place just here on earth (even if it can't 'feel' suffering, although it may be able to estimate or 'emulate' how it feels... although it *might* indeed engineer itself to feel different levels of suffering, out of curiosity...), it may "follow" in its logical mind that it would be ethically a good thing to go out there to 1) scout and have fun, map out the universe, and 2) while at it, deal with any suffering it finds.
November 25 at 4:02pm · Like · 3

Constanza Rampata Moro I think i'd rather be a 'post-biological sentience' than trust that they'd would be kind to me and others. ;-p
November 25 at 5:37pm · Like · 1

Jones Murphy A thermostat decides as much as a railroad track decides to expand when the temperature goes up, and then acts by expanding. That ain't motivation, decision, or acting as we normally understand those words. There's no intention.
Yesterday at 2:08am · Like · 1

Jones Murphy Expanding and contracting railroad tracks absolutely do alter their environment. They shatter ties and cause terrible train accidents: http://www.businessinsider.com/why-train-tracks-buckle-in...

Why Extreme Heat Turns Train Tracks Into Spaghetti
www.businessinsider.com
Extreme heat causes steel tracks to expand and buckle, forming "sun kinks" that could potentially derail train cars.
Yesterday at 3:05am · Like

Ben Zaiboc When you jerk your hand away from something hot, there's plenty of motivation but no decision. It just happens.
Yesterday at 3:07am · Like



Jones Murphy The intent of the maker of the thermostat ain't the intent of the thermostat. The thermostat has no intent, exactly like the railroad track. I have no interest in carrying on a conversation with someone who is just plain stupid.
Yesterday at 3:09am · Like

Ben Zaiboc Overriding pain (which takes a conscious effort) and a spinal reflex are two different things. If you put your hand on something very hot without knowing in advance that it's hot, your hand will have a life of its own. I would say try it, but you can't. I'd say a spinal reflex is a lot like a thermostat, but does it make a decision? Does it have any intent? I suppose that's open to interpretation. Define 'decision' and 'intent' first, /then/ argue about it.
Yesterday at 3:14am · Like

Ben Zaiboc Matthew Reed Bailey / Jones Murphy: Please don't resort to ad-hominem. I find that usually, rather than being stupid or failing to read things, people just mean different things by the same words, and don't realise it. You can't meaningfully discuss "intention" without agreeing on what it means first.
Yesterday at 3:19am · Like

Jones Murphy Ben Zaiboc, Matthew Reed Bailey went off the "rails", I did not until after he did. I blocked him so that's done. There is a lot that our bodies do which is out of our conscious control and not subject to intention, though it is at a much higher level of awareness than that of a thermostat.
Yesterday at 3:25am · Like

Ben Zaiboc What is this, 'Grouchy Tuesday'? Everyone's entitled to a couple of misunderstandings, or even cross words. I now have a mental image of two pouting boys with their backs to each other, arms crossed. Both of you, get back in there, shake hands and say you're sorry. And play nice.

Or, you know, be oversensitive, and cut yourselves off from an opportunity to talk about these things with one of the rare people actually interested in these things.
Yesterday at 3:41am · Like

Sergio Tarrero I agree with Jones that a thermostat is not an intentional being. But Matthew did not insult Jones or his intelligence by writing "someone who is just plain stupid", while Jones did use that insult. That's not permitted here, so please take notice.
Yesterday at 3:45am · Edited · Like

Jones Murphy Matthew insulted my intelligence and so do you, Sergio Tarrero
Yesterday at 3:50am via mobile · Like

Jones Murphy If you think you see any similarities between the person initiating insults and anyone else, you are biased.
Yesterday at 3:52am via mobile · Like

Ben Zaiboc Yes, we all get our intelligence insulted on a daily basis. What matters is how we deal with it.
Yesterday at 3:53am · Like

Sergio Tarrero Please explain how I am insulting your intelligence, Jones Murphy. And how "I am biased".
Yesterday at 3:54am · Like

Sergio Tarrero Jones Murphy: You are unfairly/wrongly accusing me of insulting your intelligence, and are demonstrating a belligerent attitude towards an admin, when you've just received a warning that you are breaking the rules of this group by using insults. Be careful.
Yesterday at 4:00am · Edited · Like

Sergio Tarrero I was trying to write this to Jones Murphy, but I think he's blocked me, because the system will not allow me to post this comment if I tag him. So I won't tag him, but I will post what I was trying to post, for the record: "You are unfairly/wrongly accusing me of insulting your intelligence, and are demonstrating a belligerent attitude towards an admin, when you've just received a warning that you are breaking the rules of this group by using insults. Be careful."
Yesterday at 4:01am · Like

Ben Zaiboc No, Sergio, your comment has appeared. It was probably just FB being FB. Remember the old saying "Never attribute to malice that which can be explained by incompetence".
Yesterday at 4:06am · Like

Ben Zaiboc (or, in this case, FB being its usual arsey, shambolic self)
Yesterday at 4:07am · Like

Paweł Pachniewski Jones Murphy is perfectly in his right to insist a thermostat has no intent, and as it happens the company of many important and prominent thinkers. A contemporary one is Daniel Dennett: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intentional_stance...

In this summary Dennett actually mentions the thermostat in the three levels of abstraction. He puts it on level two. The thermostat does not fall into the third level of abstraction, which would include "belief, thinking and intent".

I too find it entirely misguided to attribute belief to a thermostat, no matter what McCarthy says. Belief is only a sensible concept in context of minds. Even if one assumes panpsychism, a thermostat still has no full fledged mind and thus devoid of beliefs.

So perhaps one should not jump to conclusions regarding another person's knowledge and capitalize words, just because they disagree with you.

Intentional stance - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
en.wikipedia.org
The intentional stance is a term coined by philosopherDaniel Dennett for the lev...
See More
20 hours ago · Edited · Like · 2

Paweł Pachniewski As for the personal attacks: please stop that. And blocking administrators is prohibited. If anyone did block an admin, unblock them. Sergio is an admin.
Yesterday at 4:22am · Like · 2

Benjamin Martens "It is intended that the thermostat does [x]" is not the same as "the thermostat intends to do [x]".
Yesterday at 4:30am · Edited · Like

Linda Page Let's clarify what is meant by "motive": (Wikipedia) "
Motivation is basis and a psychological feature that arouses an organism to act towards a desired goal and elicits, controls, and sustains certain goal-directed behaviors. It can be considered a driving force; a psychological one that compels or reinforces an action toward a desired goal. For example, hunger is a motivation that elicits a desire to eat. Motivation is the purpose or psychological cause of an action....Motivation is an inner drive to behave or act in a certain manner. "It's the difference between waking up before dawn to pound the pavement and lazing around the house all day."[2] These inner conditions such as wishes, desires and goals, activate to move in a particular direction in behavior."
22 hours ago · Edited · Like · 2

Constanza Rampata Moro don't guess a thermostat has it 
22 hours ago · Like

Linda Page The key is "goal-directed" behaviors, the organism would be deliberately taking action to satisfy some goal--for example, hunting to satisfy hunger. A thermostat doesn't "evaluate" anything anymore than a light bulb "decides" to turn on.
21 hours ago · Like · 1

Constanza Rampata Moro idk, it probably is a question of degree
21 hours ago · Like · 2

Robert M. Taylor David Chalmer's philosophical zombies leave me unimpressed. For those who don't know about Chalmer's zombies, Chalmer argued that a complete physical copy of a person who didn't have any experiences wouldn't have a mind, and therefore, minds are not physical. The problem is that experiences actually do physically change the brain. Sometimes the change is only on the molecular level, but long term experiences, like seeing or hearing for the formative years of a human's life, result in structural changes. So a complete physical copy of a person would have the same memories and the same mind.
21 hours ago via mobile · Like · 4

Robert M. Taylor "A person without experiences wouldn't have a functioning brain." Because their brains would indeed be physically different than a person with experiences. I'm not sure I understand the utility of the concept of philosophical zombies.
20 hours ago via mobile · Like · 1

Robert M. Taylor I would agree however that that it's correct to see "the brain as part of a much greater dynamic system that isn’t confined to our cortices."
20 hours ago via mobile · Edited · Like

Robert M. Taylor And what form would you think that post-biological bacon would take?
20 hours ago via mobile · Unlike · 1

Robert M. Taylor It's wise to be prepared. Some day, I hope to be post biological, and I surely would not want to be bereft of bacon's presumably more moral equivalent in that new life.
19 hours ago via mobile · Unlike · 5

Micah Blumberg Robert M. Taylor:"David Chalmer's philosophical zombies leave me unimpressed. For those who don't know about Chalmer's zombies, Chalmer argued that a complete physical copy of a person who didn't have any experiences wouldn't have a mind, and therefore, minds are not physical. The problem is that experiences actually do physically change the brain. Sometimes the change is only on the molecular level, but long term experiences, like seeing or hearing for the formative years of a human's life, result in structural changes."

Agreed.

"So a complete physical copy of a person would have the same memories and the same mind."

NO! Not true. It's like with property, every property is unique because the sunset never hits two locations in exactly the same way. Who you are in each moment is probably calculated on the fly, in that moment, based on your exact location and circumstances. A copy of you would instantly be in another location, with a different calculation who it was and what was true for him differing from you.
19 hours ago · Edited · Like · 1

Robert M. Taylor Agreed, even if some how you were able to briefly create an identical copy, I think differentiation would immediately start from being in even slightly different environments.
19 hours ago via mobile · Edited · Unlike · 3

Micah Blumberg I'm betting it will be a hundred if not a billion times more dramatic and instantaneous than you are currently expect Bt. People have this illusion that there is some conditioned long term stability to who they are, its just not plausible, self is a live spacial metaphor constructed of millisecond coincidence patterns constituting criteria causation that drives action effecting risk management.
18 hours ago · Edited · Like

Micah Blumberg You think you are years in the making, I think you are milliseconds in the making.
18 hours ago · Like

Linda Page The argument that a brain without experience is a non-functioning brain is full of fallacies. You are essentially restating the disproven "tabula rosa" philosophy of mind (brain); the brain can most certainly function without having had "experiences"--as long as the physiology is intact. Otherwise you are arguing that the newborn's brain isn't functioning given their lack of experience (unless you argue that their experiences in the womb count). This is a rather vague term though, are the experiences you mean physical? Memory? Immediate? Reactionary? There are people who lack short-term memory, you could argue that they are lacking "experiences", but their brain certainly is functioning, as is the mind. As far as "Who we are", we are both the product and sum of our long-term experiences and our immediate state. I certainly agree (but not I think in the same sense as Micah) that we can change in an instant--certainly psychological trauma can drastically change a person, but even more fundamentally a brain injury can completely change who someone is, even without evident "brain damage" (by that I mean the usual TBI symptoms such as memory problems, etc). A formerly easy-going person can suddenly become irrationally short-tempered and explosive for example. Now let's say you are split into two identical people: Let's say there are two identical "yous". Both of you have identical jobs at different offices. Those offices will offer different environments, even if the work is the same--but even if we ignore those minor differences, every decision is a moment that can affect the future in countless ways--and affect future decisions, even if the "first" decision seems inconsequential-- How about: eat in or eat out? If it doesn't really matter, the choice seems less than momentous, but perhaps when you eat out--one or even both of "you", one of "you" run into your boss as he is canoodling (love that word) with his (Shock!) mistress. Remember, the two of you work at different offices, so this situation only affects on of the "yous", but now everytime the "you" goes to work to the office witih the cheating boss, your working relationship is affected by that knowledge--which will likely affect your future interactions with your boss, and many different aspects of numerous choices and decisions you make at work and without. One seemingly inconsequential choice could affect your future (and decision-making) quite profoundly. So yes, even if you are physically identical--down to the smallest atom, once you are split from your double, your experiences and your choices, your lives and even your brains diverge.
17 hours ago · Edited · Unlike · 2

Micah Blumberg Bt. You don't understand my hypothesis because it does not lead to the conclusions you have drawn. I'm basing this on recent research. http://www.amazon.com/The-Neural-Basis-Free.../dp/0262019108

The Neural Basis of Free Will: Criterial Causation
www.amazon.com
The issues of mental causation, consciousness, and free will have vexed philosop...
See More
17 hours ago · Like · 1 · Remove Preview

Micah Blumberg It is based on logic that hasn't occured to you yet. After neurons detect information as millisecond fast coincidence patterns their activity resets the firing criteria of other neurons. The idea is that after you receive information you dynamically reset your responses, so that you will fire your choices unconsciously, but adjust the next choices based on new information recieved. Its a different way of understanding the selection mechanisms. However there are dozens of other issues that need to be dealt with as pre-requisites before you will be able to accept this new idea.
15 hours ago · Edited · Like · 3

Micah Blumberg "Your choices are predetermined before you even make them." predetermined by you, how do you ride the false assumption that you are something separate from what your brain does? Its absurd dualism, you only need to think about it to refute it.
15 hours ago · Like

Giovanni Santostasi But to have true agency you need something more complicated than just one feedback loop. I think the uniqueness of our consciousness (and the idea of free will and motivation) comes from the great complexity and multi-level organization of the interconnected feedback loops in our brain. The thermostat can only "decide" to turn on or off, has no choice or many alternative states, we do have many more states so maybe this gives rise to the illusion of choice, or maybe choice is a real possibility because of the intricacy of many feedback loops working together that allow you to consider from multiple sides an action and update your decision and change your mind at the last second.
9 hours ago · Edited · Like · 2

Vijay K Rajagopal Well, not to be overly legalistic, but I'd say some definitions of terms are in order. If I had known my question was going to have inspired over 100 comments, I would have proposed some defined terms. But I am delighted with the course and the depth the discussion has taken on!
11 hours ago · Like · 2

Peter Rothman Don't forget "awareness" from the poorly defined words list. 

And BTW....Does the world really have states or do we just imagine them? Hmm, all very complicated.
11 hours ago via mobile · Like

Peter Rothman What sort of experiment would prove the world has states, discrete discernible configurations, versus a universe that doesn't? Doesn't quantum mechanics tell us that particles don't act like is at all? Anyhow, my point is, this is deep rat hole. We've only scratched the surface and already we get into how the very fabric of reality is constructed. I conclude we have no idea what will motivate a post biological being anymore than we understand the life of a grasshopper. Mu. And good morning.
11 hours ago via mobile · Like · 1

Giovanni Santostasi Why is there air is a valid question. Definitions are important, one of the powers of physics comes from making very precise definitions of concepts and then using these concepts to describe patterns in nature. What I was trying to says is while I agree with the idea of a thermostat as a basic example of decision making (it is a simple control system) I think something very different happens when you have a lot of thermostats talking to each other. You give rise to behavior that could not have been predicted by analyzing just one separate unit. It is the idea of emergence in complex interacting systems. It is in many ways the same thing that happens with life, that even if made of relatively simple chemical reactions is not simple chemistry.
10 hours ago · Like · 1

Giovanni Santostasi In fact, reading what Micah is saying what I'm saying is very similar. It is the higher complexity of loops upon loops that creates enough flexibility and recursion that allows for free will and real decision making (and not simple automatic response to some environmental conditions).
10 hours ago · Edited · Like

Micah Blumberg look you are defining my position based on your collected knowledge, but I haven't even begun to make a full argument for free will because that was not what I came to argue. If you define freewill as a will that is free from the laws of physics, then no its not freewill. If you define freewill as something independent of another persons will that you are legally responsible for then yes you have freewill. Only you are responsible for your choices, your not free from the laws of physics, but you are accountable for what you do. Second, is the universe deterministic or indeterminent? Einstein said [God does not play dice] in an apparent objection to what he was first learning about the reality at the quantum resolution, it is bizarre fasho. So at this point the cosmos could be either. Peter Tse argues that random electrical fluctuations invade the electrical activities of the brain at the quantum level adding an element of unpredictability so that your freewill is indeterminent, not pre-determined, but even if its deterministic you the organism are still responsible for making selections and thats what your brain is doing, when neurons and circuits use criteria to reset the firing criteria of other neurons and circuits. PLEASE do not define my position ever again, ONLY define your position, you don't know the first thing about my position, I have not the time to explain years of neuroscience research to you.
8 hours ago · Edited · Like

Micah Blumberg "Micah, what a tangled web you weave... it is your position of free will that assumes a consciousness that is disconnected from the physical brain and the logic circuits and memories that it has built up over decades. " what nonsense, I'm offended, ugh
9 hours ago · Like

Giovanni Santostasi Free will is very complex decision making with access to many possible states, it involves a fast reaction to internal and external stimuli that is continuously updated (maybe in a Bayesian fashion).
9 hours ago · Like

Micah Blumberg Information, non-physical information, that has no energy or mass, is detected by neurons as coincidences, patterns, this information becomes the criteria brains deliberate upon first before making a decision that results in some action. This means non-physical information drives your responses, so the brain is not simply physical reactions like a bunch of thermostats. It matters that you know. You are accountable for your actions, it matters what you know and believe, because your behavior is criteria driven. You are in a sense temporal information criteria.
9 hours ago · Edited · Like

Micah Blumberg Neurons fire tonically all the time, randomly, maintaining a baseline between excitation and inhibition, but they need specific information patterns to respond with phasic firing in the upper gamma frequencies, this information is collected as the coincidence of several neurons firing within miliseconds of each other, and it has to have a specific temporal signature that matches a specific neurons firing criteria to trigger a phasic burst. Simply stimulating neurons with electricity will not create phasic bursts. This means that top down information drives neural activity, so it is not just bottom up physical causation, its top down criteria causation.
8 hours ago · Edited · Like

Micah Blumberg Given the hypothesis that you are temporal non-physical information, coincidence patterns, ie live online criteria, driving selections in your brain, generated on the fly, making responses to everything you sense and have sensed in past experiences, you are for the sake of argument NOT your piano lessons learned over the past decade. So if you made a copy of your brain and body, a new person that would be instantly hundreds if not actually billions of times more dramatically different from your expectation would be born, with the ability and memory of how to play the piano, but this new person would not be like you. Get any two random piano players and find out if these two people are the same, they are probably not, because you are not a skill, not a memory, not conditioned muscle memory, and you're not a talent.
8 hours ago · Edited · Like

Micah Blumberg "(..) and to extract low resolution images from brain monitoring." that's misinformation. If you are referring to Jack Gallant's lab, you misunderstood. http://newscenter.berkeley.edu/2011/09/22/brain-movies/

Scientists use brain imaging to reveal the movies in our mind
newscenter.berkeley.edu
Imagine tapping into the mind of a coma patient, or watching one’s own dream on ...
See More
7 hours ago · Edited · Like · Remove Preview

Micah Blumberg memory has physical correlations, but the argument is that you are not a memory, instead a live online in the moment calculation based on location, circumstances, and criteria coming in through your senses
7 hours ago · Edited · Like

Micah Blumberg The argument of indeterminancy, because of quantum effects, is not my personal argument, its from Peter Tse. It also has nothing to do with Stewart Hameroffs woo woo notion that consciousness is occuring in the quantum range inside microtubules.
5 hours ago · Edited · Like · 1

Micah Blumberg "Jim Lai Memory is state information. Life and cognition are processes, but they are no more non-physical than a pendulum swing.

I was referring to still images, not movies." information has no mass or energy so its non-physical, I mean like patterns, how many times an event occurs is an information pattern, its non-physical criteria neural circuits recognize, deliberate upon, and respond to.
5 hours ago · Edited · Like

Micah Blumberg Information is non-physical because it has no measurable mass or energy. It exists as tempo-spatial coincidence patterns. The physical brain detects these patterns in real time, then these information patterns cause chain reactions resulting in coordinated movements.
5 hours ago · Like

Micah Blumberg If you see three apples you are having a spatial experience of the number 3. If you see an apple tossed into the air three times you are having a temporal experience of the number 3. The number 3 as a tempo-spatial pattern does not exist in the physical sense, its information, it does not have a measurable mass, energy, and velocity like a physical object has.
5 hours ago · Like

Micah Blumberg As I already explained above Neurons detect information (that is not physical meaning it has no mass and no energy) as tempo-spatial coincidences. This means that neuron D will only fire if neurons A, B, and C fire within 3 milliseconds of one another for example. If A, B, and C, do not fire within that window then neuron D will not fire. The fact that neurons detect tempo-spatial patterns is what allows brains to detect information, ie patterns that have no mass, and no energy.
4 hours ago · Edited · Like

Micah Blumberg look if you want to argue that information is physical and that the number three has mass, energy, and velocity go right ahead I am not stopping you. I'm not playing word games however. I became friends with a Nasa Scientist in the dog park where I took my dogs and he explained that everything in the universe is either information or energy, but these two things are not the same.
4 hours ago · Like

Micah Blumberg there is only one kind of information, and it has no mass, and no energy, so its not physical, this is not a word game
4 hours ago · Like

Micah Blumberg A table has mass, you can put your hands on it. That is why a table is physical. The concept of a table is a coincidence pattern in time, you can't put your hands on it. Why is it difficult for you to understand that this is not a word game, but instead its the ordinary convention and correct usage of the terms physical and non-physical. If nothing is non-physical then how can the word physical have any meaning at all? The way you have used it Matthew Reed Bailey is beyond distinction, and so it is a meaningless incorrect usage of the term physical. A word has voided meaning if it applies to everything.
4 hours ago · Edited · Like

Micah Blumberg You say the number three does not exist separate from the apple. Here is a link about how the properties of a photon can exist separate from the energy of a photon http://phys.org/.../2013-11-physicists-quantum-cheshire...

Physicists add 'quantum Cheshire Cats' to list of quantum paradoxes
phys.org
(Phys.org) —Given all the weird things that can occur in quantum mechanics—from ...
See More
4 hours ago · Like · Remove Preview

Micah Blumberg The physical properties of a photon (a temporal attribute, ie information like the concept of three) can exist separate from the energy of a photon (like the physical apple)
4 hours ago · Like

Matt Mahoney Storing and reading information are physical processes.
4 hours ago · Unlike · 1

Micah Blumberg No doubt.
4 hours ago · Like

Micah Blumberg Its not a word game to say that information is not physical and yet physical processed read and store information. Taking a temporal code and making it into a spatial pattern, and then taking a spatial pattern and converting it back into a temporal pattern. It is correct to say the spatial pattern is physical, and the temporal pattern is non-physical.
4 hours ago · Like

Matt Mahoney A temporal pattern of what? It has to be something physical.
4 hours ago · Like

Matt Mahoney That's not what it says. It says particles can move in a cyclic fashion without dissipating energy. We already knew this was possible with electrons in a superconductor.
3 hours ago · Unlike · 1

Micah Blumberg Really interesting article. It points out that the notion of space and time being one thing, spacetime, is from general relativity, and it isn't one thing in quantum physics.
3 hours ago · Like

Micah Blumberg "A temporal pattern of what? It has to be something physical." A physical thing is different from a temporal pattern. An apple is different from the movement associated with an apple. The apple is physical, the temporal pattern is not. The apple has mass, the temporal pattern has neither mass nor energy. I 

Matt Mahoney Please describe how you can create a temporal pattern without using mass or energy.
3 hours ago · Like · 1

Micah Blumberg "Please describe how you can create a temporal pattern without using mass or energy." please explain how you can create mass or energy without a temporal pattern, no wait don't because both thought experiments are irrelevant to the definitions of what the terms physical and non-physical correctly apply to.
3 hours ago · Edited · Like

Micah Blumberg its like asking please me to explain how I can make a peanut butter and jelly sandwich without jelly, and all I'm arguing is that a different term correctly applies to jelly, who cares that you can't have a spacetime sandwhich without time.
2 hours ago · Edited · Like · 1

Micah Blumberg in case you missed it, space and time go together like peanut butter and jelly, yes I said that 
3 hours ago · Like

Matt Mahoney An example of storing information in a temporal pattern is a delay line memory. Some early computers stored data as sound waves bouncing between piezoelectric crystals through a tube filled with mercury. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delay_line_memory...
