a0349z ctpr

(neurotransmitter, dendrite, synap, dopamine) #5 #dendrites

specific firing pattern

when neuron is a pattern, 

are all of the upstream neurons going to fire?

neuron

how can a neuron detect a pattern?
distinguished from noise

neuron pattern

neurons are predicting that they 

dendrites

receptors
spike in synapse
spike in the dendrite
spike in the 

waves

brainwaves-energy

signal traveling

neuron pattern detector
how would a neuron throw out patterns throw out

excitatory 
neuron is weighing what is for and against,

two kinds of excitatory firing

dendrite, internal inhibitory process for a dendrite
lots of guesses, the network as a whole makes a conclusion, winner take all,
the inhibitory inputs could suppress, so that is the network inhibiting
dendrites can do intermediatary
spontaneous firing.
open minded
the enteric brain a parallel agency, a neuron sums up some inputs
serotonin camp, tweak and tune the neuron
calcium concentrations, tune the spine

how do ampa receptors, ndma receptors differ in affectiving dendrite activity

how does the dendrite activity affect sodium, potassium, and calcium, and chloride atoms?

sodium is the positive input
chloride is the negative one
chloride 
potassium is a positive charge not a negative charge?
 is about maintaining the baseline
calcium is a special story

when glutamate, sodium atoms, how the positive atoms flow in
gabba receptor, chloride atoms, that's how the negative atoms

the sodium channels are voltage dependent, they go from open to inactivated
the potassium, the action potential, the neural spike?
the potassium it causes the spike to return to negative
and the potassium regulates the base line level of the cell

how does the potassium trigger the down regulation of the action potential?
the concentration of the potassium causes.

potassium receptors on the dendrite side or the axon side?
inside /
sodium & potassium are both positive,

calcium, 

complex intracellular processing

old classical patch clamp literature, how they change the bio physical changes, the voltage changes, the ionic side, 

the neuron maintains a -70 or -60 cortical, between -90 to -40 negative charge, resting state of a neuron




the ions are individual atoms
the potassiums are single atoms
chloride atoms are in a solution.


longer neurons do mean longer transmission delays, if it has to cross over the hemispheres,
each spine is doing a computation?
spine is pensinula, dendrites have the boutons or the synapse
two axonal boutons, 
different receptor types on one spine? different receptor receptors on boutons,
the axon side or the dentrite side,
axon side releases dendrites, dendrite 
the dendrite spine is sort of the receiving
from the dendrite to the axon, cannabanoid receptors work in reverse
how do neurotransmitters get recycle
they get reabsorbed by the axon side
the reuptake of the dopamine
when you block the current it compacts the dendritic space, removing a leak



Tags:
  dendrites