a0351z ctpr
Note from Oct 26, 2013, 12:18 AM 
(transmitters, ATP, dendrite, criteria causation, synap, neuron) I notice that when I am not in good shape, in some form of what some call "depression", that I haven't a lot of zest for much of anything. I am toying with a theory that I, like most people, have an underlying "meaningless" syndrome / fear / avoidance. That is most people never develop what Napolean Hill called “definiteness of purpose". Most people never choose a major goal that they care deeply about and devote considerable parts of their life energy to. Such a goal becomes the central focus and "meaning" to one's existence. Most people seem almost allergic to or to work hard to avoid finding and affirming such a purpose. 

Most humans in fact live life just to live. They are sort of biological automata. They do a sequence of things that feel good or amuse them or make life pleasant or are likely to lead or they believe will lead to more pleasant consequences in the future. But they have no goal or overriding meaning at all. Many would say that there is really no need for one. That living is all it is about. Yet this view has a problem. It leaves one at the mercy of feelings and urges and seeming pleasure/pain of the moment and projected future. If the feelings/urges lessen or change, as they do with aging, then the person can be left floundering. Or if a small change happens in the biochemistry for any reason then some and even all that seemed worth doing yesterday can fall away. 

It seems likely that human animals were programmed by evolution to find many things quite desirable and others quite abhorrent. It is in the interest of reproductive success and both gene and meme propagation that most people just keep going along doing more or less normal people things and spreading the genetic and memetic packages that express through and as them.

In this way most people are human automata. They are wind up beings manifesting programs and becoming incorporated into programs. The have never chosen a path, a purpose, a goal larger than their own following the pleasure/pain impulses plus a bit of cunning how to get more of the former and less of the latter. How can they help but have an interior question of "What does it mean?" if they can articulate at that somewhat meta interior level at all?

Most people spent their time finding ways to "pass the time" more or less pleasantly. They look for "something to do" or "something to entertain" or "something to feel". At bottom they look for a distraction from emptiness of being. 

Note the much commented attraction of video games. They give a sense of effective agency and joy of successfully meeting challenges. Perhaps most of all they give a sense of purpose and of goals. The character or scene hands us a purpose and perhaps even an identity and a self to be in. Someone other than us that has no issues of what gets them out of bed in the morning. Someone with a clear path and means to get there. It would be astonishing to encounter a video game with no goals, no self to be in, no quests or challenges. 

In a way this is what a true Virtual World is. And yet even here one can create and make with little more than a wish and some skill in the creation methods if one wants to create. It is much more like the "real" or physical world. It is only what you make of it. If you watch most participants long you see the same patterns on a different scale. Most are there to be titillated and entertained, to "pass the time". Rare is it to find someone with a clear defined purpose.

Some say that this seeking or thinking we should seek such a clear defined purpose is a sign of pathology. From the point of view of human automata they doubtless have a point. But is there any other way of becoming more than animal living out its life, any other means to achieve something different for self and others than by being and acting differently than we humans seem to do by default?

We often wonder why it is that we have so little will - so little ability to decide what it is that is best we do next, best for our own values, and do that. I think it has much to do with this default human programming. It has to do with a life largely lived without choosing and thus without acting toward our choice. Our will may be weak because it is a 'muscle' that we have very seldom exercised. Our will may be weak because we have not learned, have not chosen to learn, to notice our programming and choose a different course when that seems best to us.

Some of us say that we are transhumanist yet largely we live our lives as if we are mainly concerned with "passing the time" as pleasantly as possible while waiting to die. Thanatos runs deep in our biology, psychology and evolution. At some quite fundamental level I think we make the decision to remain mortal - sort of a "what does it matter?". At the very least we act quite consistently as if our life does not matter. We act consistently as if nothing much at all matters. After all, we never really decided something matters and matters so much we devote our life to it - we never form a primary purpose.

Thus we are without meaning within the core of our being and largely by our own conscious or semi-conscious hand. If we really want to “transcend the human conduction” I think we might well consider starting here.
3Like ·  · Unfollow Post · Share
Monica Anderson, Paweł Pachniewski and 6 others like this.

Reeve Armstrong I think this idea about finding meaning/purpose is just a hang up left over from a culture made to think that a god created everything to have a specific function. For example, in the Bible there's a lot of metaphors about god being a potter. The impli...See More
9 hours ago · Like

Samantha Atkins Actually it is a question. What gets you out of bed in the morning? What makes your activities worthwhile to you. Or perhaps most succinctly, what do you choose to do with your time, however long or short it may be, and why? It has nothing at all ...See More
9 hours ago · Like · 3

Reeve Armstrong What gets me out of bed in the morning? I do.  The activities I do are worthwhile, they aren't made worthwhile by some other thing. What does that mean? That there's a currency of "worthwhileness" and some activities have a higher "worthwhileness" price than others? I don't think the meta-question makes sense, honestly.
9 hours ago · Like

Reeve Armstrong Also you said that it's a problem that basically what one enjoys might change tomorrow. But I don't see how that's a problem. Change like that makes life more exciting. Also, if we didn't have change then we'd never get to know what it's like to experience nostalgia for something past. And that kind of experience is one I'd rather be able to have 
9 hours ago · Like

Philippe van Nedervelde Your poignant rendition of the human condition echoes and resonates, Samantha. Even if our individual lives are literally meaningless in the greater scheme of things, we *can* locally create genuine meaning for ourselves and for some of our loved ones ...See More
9 hours ago · Like · 2

Micah Blumberg I bet it has nothing to do with evolution, culture, the human condition, your conditioning, your epigenetics, your heritage, your feelings and instead that it has everything to do with your metabolism, what your eating is causing both the depression and the being out of shape at the same time. If you increase your ATP production your cells will be able to make more energy, and that means more zest for life, no more depression, and more fitness. http://www.amazon.com/.../ref=sr_1_4/189-6953360-3715265...

From Fatigued to Fantastic
www.amazon.com
The original, bestselling guide to treating chronic fatigue and fibromyalgia-now...
See More
9 hours ago · Like · Remove Preview

Samantha Atkins So evolution has nothing to do with the effects of what I am eating (or that I need to consume biologicals at all) on my biological body? 

We are supposedly about transcending mere biology.
8 hours ago · Like · 1

Reeve Armstrong It's evolution that's determined what your body does with the stuff you eat! 
8 hours ago · Like

Micah Blumberg um, well to take a page from Paleo diet theory, our metabolism is about 200,000 years old, we are genetically similar to humans from 200,000 years ago, and only recently in the past 10,000 years people have started to eat wheat and beans, but it really got a lot worse since the industrial revolution. Wheat and beans have all these nasty anti-nutrients that clog metabolism, then processed sugar and flour came along and now people are able to consume toxic amounts of sugar and wheat very quickly. Since humans have not evolved very much in the last 200,000 years this really isn't about our evolution, but instead it's about our metabolism, respecting our metabolism with the foods we eat, and the nutrients we get.
8 hours ago · Edited · Like

K.t. Lindberger-Schmidt Have you considered "the forum"? Or watched "the matrix". Man is a meaning making machine - and can do no other - pursue what makes meaning for you, be frustrated or "asleep". For some it is religion, others family and still others solving some social ill / all equally valid . . . Just acknowledge that you will make meaning / and you get to choose what to make meaning out of and how you pursue it (rate, pace and the like)
6 hours ago via mobile · Like

Amara Graps Maybe in this modern world there are too many ways to avoid facing our abyss? Here I wrote on the topic, but from a different perspective. https://www.facebook.com/amara.graps/posts/10151923740274124
6 hours ago · Edited · Like

Michael M. Butler "Our will may be weak because we have not learned, have not chosen to learn, to notice our programming and choose a different course when that seems best to us."

This is rich terrain. Inflexibility is not unlike brittleness (a word I'm fond of thinking about lately). Knowing when to hold'em and knowing when to fold'em is not part of the base installation of birth firmware, that seems certain (and perhaps drearily obvious, in which case, /pace/). The natural urge to explore-and-drop can be thwarted in lots of ways. The natural urge to study in depth is more subtle, I think, but ditto that. Thanks for this post; I hope to return to it.
4 hours ago · Like

James Ledford Meaning of life? Your life is an artistic expression, sometimes a masterful brush-stroke in space-time, and sometimes a skid mark.
3 hours ago · Like

James Ledford A worthy personal goal is pitching in, making a significant contribution, to life's long-term goal of attaining the universal creator-sustainer state of being.
3 hours ago · Like

Micah Blumberg willpower might be a myth in some sense, if your body is unable to produce enough energy that might feel like you have little willpower, if your body is able to produce a lot of energy that might feel like a lot of willpower, to your cells energy is ATP http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adenosine_triphosphate so you could take supplements like Dribose, Creatine, Nad, Acetyl-l-carnitine, 7-keto, Nadh, and you can stop eating grains, beans, and sugar (including sweet fruit, juices, and smoothies) and eat a diet that is 60 percent fat and I guarantee that will empower your willpower a hundred fold, because your metabolism will be producing a lot of ATP, you will be building muscle, losing fat, and feeling like a little deity. fyi I have only lost 170 pounds since January 2010 and gone from size 58 pants to size 36 pants. So it worked for me.

There is the issue of choices, or the inner mechanisms of learning from errors and change, its about cell based criterial causation, neurons recognize information as coincidences in the timed firing of other neurons, and the transmission of neurotransmitters resets the coincidence detection firing criteria of other neurons, what fires are axons, and dendrites, the criteria is not only synaptic weight from neurotransmitters, its also spines, dendritic spines which change rapidly, and they are connected to the mitochondria in the neurons, the mitocondria create ATP in the aerobic metabolism of a cell, and they work so hard they import ATP from glial cells that are interconnected with the neurons metabolism. So if you don't think ATP has anything to do with your executive function, think again.
