a0350z ctpr

(transmitters, ATP, endophin, conjecture, synap, emotion, cortex, transmitter, semantic, neuron)
(dopamine) Robert Karl Stonjek No, this is wrong. Neurotransmitters such as these are links in a chain, so to speak. It is like suggesting that we only travel in order to burn fuel, because that is what happens every time we drive.

These neurotransmitters are not pleasure, but links in a chain of events that result in the feeling of pleasure. That the system can be short circuited at this point only shows up the vulnerability of the system.
14 hours ago · Unlike · 16

Marlicia Travis What about oxytocin and Relaxin?
14 hours ago · Like · 2

Filip Gęsiarz Technically speaking, dopamine is related to wanting/craving reactions, and liking/enjoying is more related to opioid, endocannabinoid, and GABA-benzodiazepine neurotransmitter systems http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2756052/
13 hours ago · Like · 8

Suzanne Fisher ...Was hoping to boost the overall system with a light-hearted MEME 
13 hours ago · Like · 3

Ted Grabowski "Oxytocin, Oxytocin--We Love our Oxytocin!"

12 hours ago · Like · 7

Robert Karl Stonjek You win the lottery and are happy.
I can short circuit this by simply telling you that you had won the lottery and you would be happy.
Or I can short circuit the system even further and simply change neurotransmitter levels and you will be happy.

What *really* makes you happy? Clearly the fake measures are transient and inconsistent with the reality of your actual situation. But we like short cuts (hence TV, alcohol etc...)
12 hours ago · Edited · Like · 4

Micah Blumberg hey remember endorphins and acetylcholine
12 hours ago via mobile · Like · 3

Marlicia Travis Yes I was thinking about ACh too. Aren't they all wonderful!
10 hours ago · Unlike · 1

Marlicia Travis Did you know that if you use endorphins the right way during labour it minimizes the pain phenomenally. Drugs that make you feel good 
10 hours ago · Unlike · 1

Diana Cryder I got it, Suzanne 
9 hours ago · Like · 2

Michael Gabriel Song To be dreadfully nit picky, it's not serotonin and dopamine, but their appropriate receptors that impart the euphoric experience. Depending on the receptor these neurotransmitters also have the capacity to signal unpleasant thoughts and feelings 
6 hours ago · Unlike · 2

Marlicia Travis Yes they do. Its the nerves that have it. Those lovely little excitatory nerves!
6 hours ago via mobile · Unlike · 2

Marlicia Travis Feelings........
6 hours ago via mobile · Unlike · 2

Robert Karl Stonjek There must be some mechanism by which a stimulus from one sensory modality can, under some conditions, stimulate a number of unrelated modalities.

If I *tell* you something (eg 'I Love You') then those warm loving feelings (or the 'fight or flight' response) are relayed to numerous unrelated modalities ~ you feel it in your body as a nice warm feeling (or in your legs as you flee), you have thoughts concrete and abstract, you hear music (or sirens because you called the police...don't you like my raincoat?) and other responses.

Now what would be a really simple and easy way of crossing all these unrelated modalities all at once AND using a method that could evolve from very simple brains.

Yes, you guessed it. Change a particular neurotransmitter abundance that is used by the diverse areas and they all respond together but in totally different an physically unrelated ways.

And there's the trick. So if you intervene at the crossroads, so to speak, you get the response. Now the real trick is that when this response occurs naturally, each modality accepts it (music even though there is no external sound) because the mechanism is never triggered without at least one of the related modalities being stimulated.

So if none of them are stimulated the response occurs anyway because this possibility is not evolutionarily likely.

Analogy:
There are many fire alarm buttons throughout a building. Regardless of who presses it or where in the building it is 'stimulated', the fire alarm sounds and everybody runs outside even though they didn't see any sign of fire. The assumption is that the alarm wouldn't sound unless SOMEONE saw signs of a fire.

So that, *in my opinion*, is the role of these emotion signalling neurotransmitters. It is 'cross modal'.

Just as fire alarms do not cause fires, neurotransmitters do not cause emotion ~ they initiate the wide (cross-modal) response to emotional stimulus (which is what you feel).
6 hours ago · Unlike · 2

Emil Bohman what about just pure experience?
5 hours ago via mobile · Unlike · 1

Radek Stupak this is oversimplification. also, what about endorfines?...
5 hours ago · Unlike · 1

Radek Stupak and what about oxitocine?...
5 hours ago · Unlike · 1

Micah Blumberg oxytocin
5 hours ago · Like · 1

Micah Blumberg I already said endorphins, but what about endolphins? just kidding
5 hours ago · Edited · Like

Radek Stupak yeah, endolphins!  
5 hours ago · Unlike · 2

Radek Stupak and dopabonobos. 
5 hours ago · Unlike · 2


Radek Stupak well, the only way to answer that question is to have a pure experience... but that's beyond the language and logic of science, i guess.
5 hours ago · Like

Radek Stupak (but that doesn't mean there is no such thing, it may only mean that science is not capable of grasping "pure experience")
5 hours ago · Like

Radek Stupak (yet?)
5 hours ago · Like

Micah Blumberg no I mean the language is problematic, incoherent, meaningless, how could anything not be also pure experience? who is to say what is and what isn't pure experience, the question itself is nonsense
5 hours ago · Like · 1

Emil Bohman If I smell a flower, neurotransmittors is more like a gateway to bring about the full experience in my mind, right?
5 hours ago · Like

Micah Blumberg you can't quantify pure experience, or even experience if you can't separate it from something that isn't experience, or experienced in some way
5 hours ago · Like

Radek Stupak i know what you mean. but what i mean is that some things exist beyond any language and thus speaking about them seems incoherent or nonsense, though it doesn't prove that those "experiences beyond language and logic" don't exist or are nonsense.
5 hours ago · Like

Micah Blumberg at somepoint experience is everything, and experience equates to everything, so what your really asking is "what about just pure everything?"
5 hours ago · Like · 1

Micah Blumberg "what about pure everything?" is a nonsense question just like "what about pure experience?" is a nonsense question.
5 hours ago · Edited · Like

Radek Stupak and pure everything is cosmos  and so far nobody really knows what cosmos in it's absolute is. 
5 hours ago · Like

Radek Stupak (universe)
5 hours ago · Like

Robert Karl Stonjek A system to distribute the feeling to otherwise unrelated modalities. This 'crosstalk' is very common in human consciousness and is much broader than the simpler emotions mediated by neurotransmitters.

For instance Beethoven symphony No.6, the Pastorale, evoked feeling of a trip to countryside. That is very crossmodal: sount to music to experience of the country side. The experience of the countryside comes from viewing the scenery, smelling the country smells, hearing the country sounds (as experienced by the listener in the past) and the generalised (to 'any trip in the country') and then matched to the music.

So the neurotransmitter version is ancient and simple one and we'd expect to see it in many mammals. But I don't think too many of them would be able to match a trip into the country with Beethoven's 6th 
5 hours ago · Like · 3

Micah Blumberg The nerve is the axon right?
5 hours ago · Like

Radek Stupak and music is a form of language.
5 hours ago · Like

Black Square Radek Stupak Nah, it ain't. You need syntactic forms and mappings onto semantics. Music doesn't really work like that.
5 hours ago · Edited · Like

Micah Blumberg It's the nerve that feels, and the result of that feeling must be after the extra electrical potential has passed to the synapse, and that's when the neurotransmitters are released into other cells. So the neurotransmitters are sent out after the feeling has happened.
5 hours ago · Like

Black Square Robert Karl Stonjek Whereas the ultraviolence after hearing the 9th is purely dopaminergic 
5 hours ago · Like

Micah Blumberg Orange you glad I didn't say dopabanana? My comment was right on time, like Clockwork.
5 hours ago · Edited · Like · 1

Robert Karl Stonjek Stockhausen and John Cage stimulate the LSD receptors (assuming we have such things)...
5 hours ago · Like

Micah Blumberg Receptors mold themselves to receive specific neurotransmitters as if they were adapting to receive nutrients, like nicotine. So if LSD becomes a neurotransmitter, receptors will adapt to LSD, then you have LSD receptors. The receptor change must coincide with a structural change that effects with the criteria that determines when a neuron fires and in response to what types of patterns a neuron will fire.
4 hours ago · Edited · Like

Black Square To be a neurotransmitter, it has to be synthesised by the brain, among other things. Part of the structure of LSD has a tryptamine backbone, as does serotonin. It activates several serotonin receptors because LSD can fit in the active site and stabilise conformations of the receptor, hence mimicing the action of serotonin.

Part of the reason it has such a bizzarre effect is because it targets certain receptor subtypes specifically, whereas MDMA causes serotonin to be pumped into the synapse, which mimics heightened levels of serotonin, for which the brain has mechanisms of dealing with something that is an extreme version of a physiological state.

Of course, it's what cell types the receptors are on that gives rise to the effects. One of them being autoreceptors on the Raphe Nucleus, which when stimulated, lower serotonin release onto the Locus Coerulus (LC) which is the primary noradrenaline centre. This results in reduced stability in LC dynamics, leading to nonlinearities in adaptive gain control.
4 hours ago · Unlike · 1

Robert Karl Stonjek Yes. And there is a very wide variety of neurotransmitters, they are not a separate class of molecule. There is a gas (NO) and several hormones in the mix!!
4 hours ago · Unlike · 1

Black Square Incidentally, the drug amyl nitrite (poppers) works by breaking down into NO in the bloodstream.
4 hours ago · Unlike · 1

Micah Blumberg Isobutyl nitrite works the same way??
4 hours ago · Like

Micah Blumberg What about ATP, can ATP act as a neurotransmitter? Can anything?
4 hours ago · Like

Radek Stupak Black Square music has got it's own syntactics. it doesn't have semantics (at least in its' conventional meaning).
4 hours ago · Edited · Like

Micah Blumberg answered my own question http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16487603

Historical review: ATP as a neurotransm... [Trends Pharmacol Sci. 2006] - PubMed - NCBI
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov
PubMed comprises more than 23 million citations for biomedical literature from M...
See More
4 hours ago · Like · Remove Preview

Micah Blumberg on topic fasho http://www.thurstontalk.com/.../

ATP: Your Energy Source And Neurotransmitter
www.thurstontalk.com
 

Black Square Yes, all alkyl nitrites work in the same way. The main difference is that the number of carbon atoms in the alkyl group determines how easy the NO can fall off.
4 hours ago · Unlike · 1

Micah Blumberg what about Jalapeno Poppers, do they work the same way? (joke)
4 hours ago · Edited · Like · 1

Black Square See the Neurotransmitter article on wikipedia for the criteria for being a neurotransmitter.

Drugs are exogenous, so they're not neurotransmitters. Also, although, e.g. DMT is produced by the brain and some (as yet, unsupported) conjectures suggest it can reach high enough levels under certain conditions to stimulate receptors, it does not do this under normal physiological conditions. Thus not a neurotransmitter.
4 hours ago · Edited · Like

Black Square No, those you stick up your arse and your heart rate goes bonkers while you wait for the toilet to become free.
4 hours ago · Like

Robert Karl Stonjek Drugs are not neurotransmitters but either stimulate neurotransmitter release (eg psychoactive drugs used to treat depression) or mimic drugs (I wonder what stimulates nicotinic receptors).

But drugs are not neurotransmitters. Indeed, many neurotransmitters will not even cross the blood-brain barrier and must be synthesised in the brain from precursors (I think).
4 hours ago · Unlike · 2

Marlicia Travis drug (drug) 
1. a chemical substance that affects the processes of the mind or body.

2. any chemical compound used in the diagnosis, treatment, or prevention of disease or other abnormal condition.

3. a substance used recreationally for its effects on the central nervous system, such as a narcotic.

4. to administer a drug to.
4 hours ago · Unlike · 1

Micah Blumberg Black Square says "See the Neurotransmitter article on wikipedia for the criteria for being a neurotransmitter.

Drugs are endogenous, so they're not neurotransmitters."

Wikipedia article on neurotransmitters says...See More

Neurotransmitter - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
en.wikipedia.org
Neurotransmitters are endogenouschemicals that transmit signals from a neuron to...
See More
4 hours ago · Like · Remove Preview

Marlicia Travis http://medical-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/drug
4 hours ago · Like

Marlicia Travis Since when has Wikipedia been a valid source? Just saying
4 hours ago · Like

Black Square @Micah Blumberg Sorry, a typo.

@Marlicia Travis In the context of providing the 'highest level of folk knowledge for general use', then always. It's only unsuitable for citation in an academic context.

When has looking words up in dictionaries been a substitute for academic knowledge? 
4 hours ago · Unlike · 1

Micah Blumberg yeah but what is the typo because it seems like all these unreliable sources are contradicting Black Square & Robert Karl Stonjek's notion that drugs are not neurotransmitters, it actually seems that they are
3 hours ago · Like

Micah Blumberg What is happening to your braincells right now? (humor)
3 hours ago · Like · 1

Robert Karl Stonjek In science and medicine, 'drug' is assumed to refer to something introduced into the body. Neurotransmitters, including endocannabinoids which are similar to cannabis and endorphins, which are similar to opioids, are not considered to be drugs.

It is a customary practice. It does not mean that no drugs are identical to neurotransmitters.
3 hours ago · Edited · Unlike · 2

Black Square Sorry, it's all a question of 'purpose'.
Drugs are EXOgenous. They are purposefully adminstered to interfere with physiology. Pharmaceuticals go one step further and are specifically engineered to have a relatively-precise effect on physiology.

Neutrotransmitters are ENDOgenous. They evolved for the purposes of signalling across synapses. They must meet certain criteria to be NTs.a
1) Must be present in the 'sender', e.g. presynaptic cell.
2) There must be receptors to transduce the signal on the 'receiver', e.g. postsynaptic cell.
3) There must be a means of inactivating the effect, e.g. reuptake into either cell, endocytosis with the receptor complex, in-synapse enzymatic degradation, etc.
4) There must be specific metabolic pathways for making (anabolism) and destroying (catabolism) the messanger. 

Drugs don't have specific pathways to do this, indeed, the liver has a general mechanism for making xenobiotics (foreign molecules) more soluble in water, and the kidney works by pissing everything out first, then reabsorbing what it needs. Drugs also don't have specific receptors for them -- they target receptors for NTs and others. You don't have 'THC receptors', you have 'anandamide* receptors'.

* technically CB1 receptors, which bind several endocannabinoids (eCB).

I've been up all night programming Dynamic Causal Models in Haskell, so my brain cells are currently off their tits on caffeine, sleep deprivation and Bayesian model selection. 
3 hours ago · Unlike · 1

Micah Blumberg hey it's an awesome response, I think of neurons as dynamic causal models in a way, how interesting, do your dcm's make decisions and alter the decision criteria of other dcm's?
3 hours ago · Like

Black Square Dynamic Causal Modelling is a particular modelling framework. There's two parts:

1) A biophysical model that generates data like you would observe from a real brain, in this case, EEG data from the scalp.

2) A means of inferring the values of the most likely parameters of the model that generate a real dataset you've collected. You get a probability distribution over values of each parameter so you can say how certain you are of what's going on.

The 'Dynamic Causal' name is because we're modelling the causes of the EEG data with a dynamical model. Other ways of analysing EEG data involve making statistical correlations between measurements, without thinking about how the data were caused.
2 hours ago · Unlike · 1

Black Square The way the parameters are inferred involve minimising a quantity called 'free energy' (in a statistlcal sense). There's ways of altering the parameters using genetic algorithms to save on computation time, so yes, the outcomes of these do infer decisions made later about how to minimise the free energy. 
2 hours ago · Unlike · 1

Diana Cryder This is what happens when you tell a joke to geeks 
27 minutes ago · Like · 2

Micah Blumberg That is so cool! I use EEG combined with brainwave entrainment and an avs mind machine as part of a profound experience I create for clients. However there are a lot of improvements I would like to make to what I am doing, perhaps "Dynamic Casual" modelling would be useful at somepoint to help achieve what I want to do.
10 minutes ago · Edited · Like

Micah Blumberg The goal is to feed the clients their own brainwave activity as isochronic tones that are highly responsive light and sound patterns, so that the clients begin to recognize their brainwaves, and because of the principles of neuroplasticity (when neurons fire together they wire together) this tech creates new connections across regions of the mind, uniting the frontal cortex with the parietal cortex, the occipital lobes, the auditory cortex etc... the eyes, ears, and parts of the brain monitored by the eeg cap. I already do this, but I want to make it more responsive and accurate. I think that with a good dynamic causal model one could make the computer follow the changes more accurately for use with a three dimensional virtual world, sort of like a mind machine merged into the Oculus Rift.
3 minutes ago · Like
