a0365z ctpr
May 16, 2012
(inceptive field, inhibition)

my cells are rewarded for learning a pattern, learning a pattern means I am part of the most officient pathway for a signal to travel, it means live, cells live and continue to live by detecting patterns, and reflecting what they learned accurately to other cells. I just want to touch where the light is coming from, that is the basics of aware life at the neuron level.

The neuron is a fractal of the man in that sense. With its own inner sense. That it is doubling by every neuron that it syncs with

maybe the calcium receptors in the dendrite are responsible for maintaining the tonic firing pattern. but then I need to show, hmm. inhibition with extra k release still makes sense.

the granule cell goes across the dendrites of the pyramidal cells, connecting perhaps several times, which is interesting because their noise within one particular neuron can be increased or decreased simply by the number of connections, but the potential amplitudes & frequency combinations are multiplied with every additional synaptic connection, or divided by each synaptic connection, so a loss of one synaptic connection would make that granule cell quieter in the array,

the key is that its inceptive field

1136 "Actually, I just woke up one day and decided I didn't want to feel like that anymore, or ever again, so I changed. just like that" source unknown. To me is represents a shift that is the new dominance of a new voice that represents a new dominant neuropattern among the nerve cells that fire in the brain. 

Given the complexity inside brains verses the complexity of the whole cosmos outside brains, you might think of the cosmos as a small part of your brain, instead of thinking of the brain as a small part of the cosmos.

the oscillation of the magnetic field configuration on the brain from the brain is going to be felt by the brain as areas of increase ATP release as the mitochonria are stimulated by the flavin sensitivity to electromagnetism in the brain, so the output of neurons can change the magnetic field, and they can sense the magnetic field because they have flavins in the nerve tissue and the mitochondria flavins are in particular stimulated by electromagnetic field changes.

Tags:
  choice, killed