a0397z ctpr
(oscillat, graph) The human mind is like order that arises out of chaos. It's structure is encoded in coincidence patterns, that represent the holographic property of a representation of reality that your brain is making. As your thoughts cycle throughout the brain, with different parts of the brain playing back different parts of the pattern of you.

Pointclouds of disintegrating trinity.

So this idea is to create a video montage of trinity melting with pictures of the VR Industry, Otoy, Meta,

I realized that I do have choice. A choice that is caused by natural selection happening because of the physics of my brain chemistry interacting with spacetime.

The Computer Graphics Industry is changing film, videogames, vr, ar, with AI in amazing ways.

Silicon Valley Global News: The Computer Graphics Industry

Everyone's brain is capable of having a medical emergency that results in extreme behavior dysfunction. Imagine that with new insights into brain function, new brain computer interface technologies, and new software we could merge the medical and justice systems into one system.

What if Electricity Magnetism had an arrow, a forward or backward pointing direction

it does when using a powerline

but what if the direction embodies how a particle spin is defined as a forward or backward (up down) direction

it also makes you ask of the electrons in a wire are all facing the same direction, all top or all down?

I guess alternately both right? like the up electron waves are facing a different direction in terms of  every other wave oscillation.

so the up are perhaps segrating with ups and downs with downs?

check maxwells equations
I had this vision of white marble, gold letter outline and sapphire blue inner 3D lettering for Silicon Valley Global News

Gravity is a reverse pressure gradient, created because it warps the shape of space time with a time gradient, as its masses slow down one another and that expands into space becoming space.

gravity is pressurizing space, depressuring space would cause lift, or expansion, 

photons gain energy as they move toward gravity

the higher frequency is the narrowing on of space amplitude, while the lower frequency broadens space amplitude

