a0390z ctpr
Oct 18, 2013
(optogenetics, synap, cortex)
So this morning I invented electrogenetics, the world can thank me later!

For reference purposes read this article

"Scientists expand the genetic code of mammals to control protein activity in neurons with light"
http://medicalxpress.com/news/2013-10-scientists-genetic-code-mammals-protein.html

Micah Blumberg optogenetics is flawed because you need something as large as the Cmn amino acid for light from an led to break open a particular protein. they should be using something smaller than a stream of photon particles, like electricity, then perhaps you would not need to alter the genetic code of a cell. I think I will call this new technology electrogenetics. Your welcome!
57 minutes ago · Like

Andreea Epure Micah.... what on earth are u talking about?
56 minutes ago · Unlike · 1

Micah Blumberg "To make proteins respond to light, Wang's team harnessed a photo-responsive amino acid, called Cmn, which has a large chemical structure. When a pulse of light shines on the molecule, Cmn's bulky side chain breaks off, leaving cysteine, a smaller amin...See More
48 minutes ago · Edited · Like

Micah Blumberg okay another way to say it is, the amino acids that are already in a mammal are not particularly responsive to light, but they are probably all responsive to electricity, so why optogenetics when electrogenetics should make the road between research and treatments far easier?
35 minutes ago · Like

Cyrus Ghamari The specificity of “a protein within a set of in-action neurons” for a related piece of event would mean: we can now categorize human's behavior & ultimately humans themselves according to those elements of functions.
21 minutes ago · Like

Andreea Epure Micah Blumberg when you have the evidence for your claims please do share them with us!
20 minutes ago · Like

Micah Blumberg for which claim or claims in particular? you want me to write a peer reviewed science journal article with 100 references? it says in the article we just read that the amino acids in mammals are not particularly responsive to light, so really it's an obvious question, why are they using light, when pretty much all the amino acids in a mammal are already responsive to electricity?
18 minutes ago · Like

Andreea Epure You want to say that electricity has an effect on the neural activity as much on the genetic expression of the brain blue print. What is your prediction? You use electricity to produce what?
16 minutes ago · Unlike · 1

Micah Blumberg well you could use electricity to trigger spiking, to open and close potassium and sodium channels, to break and move proteins, to erase and make long term memories, lots of things, the brain already uses electricity, it works
15 minutes ago · Like

Andreea Epure Well, this article talk about a very narrow subject, whereas you claim you can stuff at a global level. There are interlinked, but not complementary!
13 minutes ago · Unlike · 1

Bijay Nanda . . . the leap from photons to electrons may well be a quantum one . . . ?!  interesting thread though . . . meandering into string theory ?! 
13 minutes ago · Unlike · 1

Micah Blumberg Well it's just an idea, but intended with some humor. Not so much seriousness. It is very funny to invent something like electrogenetics before breakfast 
10 minutes ago · Like

Andreea Epure Well, I would love if you could stick to the matter of the subject! x
9 minutes ago · Unlike · 1

Micah Blumberg Well one question specific to the topic is how would I use electricity in place of a flashlight, is there some kind of flashlight that beams electrons instead of photons? however that's an electrical question

I wonder if Black Square knows the answer?
7 minutes ago · Like
Micah Blumberg

This morning I coined the term and invented electrogenetics, and this evening I coined the term infogenetics, like optogenetics, which uses an led light to trigger neural activity and break open light sensative aminoacids, the idea is to use an electron beam (electrogenetics), or a specific information pattern (infogenetics), to trigger various kinds of neural activity, to control brain activity for research.

I'm reading this book about how neurons detect information patterns, and reset the firing criteria of both pre and post synapses on both sides of the axon. resulting in custom temporary circuits that excite or inhibit based on the reception of specific information patterns. So packets of criteria based firing cells are colluding in aggregate to result in deliberative decision making, sometimes simulating the appearance of rule based and propositional decision making.

I wonder if we send specific information patterns, mimicking specific criteria triggers, if we can successfully target specific neurons to inhibit or excite other neurons. If so that technology would be called infogenetics.

On electrogenetics, perhaps we could apply some sort of direct contact to the protein, from a portable electron microscope gun, to avoid having air scatter the electron beam.

Is it possible to send an electrical spike to a specific location from outside the brain?

My cranial electrotherapy stimulation device stimulates the brain stem, but how? Specifically but it's connected to the ears and somehow the current goes to the brainstem, which happens to be between the ears (right?)

I wonder if CES is just running a straight line of electrical current between the ears.

With transcranial direct current stimulation we can target specific regions the the prefrontal cortex for stimulation. Yet the target area seems to be between the electrodes so...

Is a device possible that would let a person stimulate a specific neuron from outside the brain to either inhibit, excite, or otherwise reset the firing criteria of other neurons? Or perhaps even to just destroy a specific protein? I'm guessing not.

I'm guessing any kind of electrical stimulation from outside the brain would stimulate everything in between.
