a0415z ctpr
(hippocampus) 
the colorado batman theater shooter may have had a brain tumor or parasite in his brain the size of a golf ball http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2011/07/the-brain-on-trial/8520/?single_page=true

The Brain on Trial
www.theatlantic.com
Advances in brain science are calling into question the volition behind many cri...
See More
7 hours ago · Like · 1 · `

Micah Blumberg It might have been the killers cat or from undercooked meat http://www.latimes.com/news/science/la-sci-parasite-suicide-risk-20120707,0,6408832.story

Study links parasite in cats to suicide risk in humans
www.latimes.com
Los Angeles Times
7 hours ago · Like · 1 · 

Micah Blumberg if you combine david eagleman's article with the article on parasites that cause schitzophrenia and bipolar disorder without any previous history of mental illness we can see that humans as a species may have been blindsighted by something that was never within anyone's control to influence, not even within the killers capability to control
6 hours ago · Edited · Like · 1

Micah Blumberg revised previous comment Wendi you may want to change your opinion or not
6 hours ago · Like
Wendiane Woodburn Even if those things were true for him....it still wouldn't mean he was evil, which is my point. I already mentioned biological possibilities and I do believe that extremist religious backgrounds can also contribute to mental illness, or be a sing of already being mentally ill.
6 hours ago via mobile · Like
Wendiane Woodburn Sign
6 hours ago via mobile · Unlike · 1

Micah Blumberg sigh :/ around the whole topic in general, its just sad, I deleted my comment about his extremist christian background/community which may or may not have played a role in contributing to the disturbed state of mind he was in. what I see personally is a lot of young people raised with a hardcore christian bible based world view are not prepared for adulthood in the real world. when the adults in your community all think the rapture is coming in the next five years they do little to prepare you for the realities of a long life on this planet as a human being. disabling their own young with a worldview that is freak out scary and largely incompatible with the real world that we all live in. I don't know if extremist religion played a role in disabling his rational mind leading to this shooting, but it wouldn't surprise me either.
5 hours ago · Like

Micah Blumberg ‎"Even if those things were true for him....it still wouldn't mean he was evil" I was supporting your point, not arguing against it!
24 minutes ago · Like · 1

Micah Blumberg Perhaps evil the result not the cause? perhaps evil is the arrangement of molecules, not the will of the soul. Consider this article, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/07/29/opinion/sunday/neuroscience-and-moral-responsibility.html?_r=1

Neuroscience and Moral Responsibility
www.nytimes.com
A look at whether anomalies in the brain can let us off the hook for certain behavior.
22 minutes ago · Like · 

Micah Blumberg Lets say someone was born with a bad brain, and or acquired tumors and or parasites that altered the state of the brain so much that this person was hard bent on choosing deadly violent criminal activities. A clear risk to the public. How can this classify as evil? Sin in the catholic context means to miss the mark, to commit error, making mistake, to choose wrongly, or more simply to have done wrong. Even if we can't agree in some objective absolute definition of right and wrong, I think most reasonable people would say that what the Colorado Killer did was wrong. If someone thought that what the Colorado Kill did was right, then they might classify as evil. Evil meaning aligned with missing the mark, committing error, making mistake, choosing wrongly. That's what the devil is Wendi, theology does not ask the question, was this mistake a matter of brain malfunction, or a soul rebelling against G-d. The reason is theology doesn't ask that question is because it's not concerned with the mechanics of the brain. The person's decision, regardless of whether it comes from their soul, or from a malfunctioning hippocampus being squeezed by a tumor, or bad brain chemistry from junk food that has resulted in a malnourished frontal lobe that is failing to inhibit lower impulses like violent desires, and violent coordinated planning, or a parasite that has grown to the size of a human finger eating braincells destroying the links that preserve rational action while squeezing the amygdala to create a constant survival mode for the distressed person doesn't matter. What matters is when we begin treating evil as a medically treatable condition. When evil is recognized as disease, the court system and the medical system will merge together. 