a0417z ctpr
Apr 27, 2014
(semantic, category theory) Sergio Pissanetzky Micah, You seem to be asking about the famous binding problem: how things bind and become invariants, where semantics and scaling come from, why fractals and power laws are so abundant in nature. Here is what I can say. Take a causal set (S, w). It has a corresponding permutation groupoid, which induces a group-theoretical block system on S. In addition, and here comes the interesting part, partial order w induces a partial order on the blocks, and the block system itself becomes a (smaller) causal set. This property of recurrence should explain hierarchies, fractals, power laws, scaling, semantics, emergence, AGI. 

Tom LaGatta: Why am I referring to nature? The fundamental principles of causality and symmetry describe information in its most fundamental and pristine state, and they apply to all physical systems, including the brain, human or otherwise, which is the only system where we observe the phenomena of intelligence. For any system described by a set S of boolean state variables with values {past, future}, the principle of causality is formalized by a causal set (S, w). And the principle of symmetry, or rather the breaking of symmetry which is necessary for structure to exist, is derived from the fact that partial order w breaks the original symmetry of S. 

Yeah, that's a good place for the more AI-oriented parts of your question.

The specific question "is there any notion in category theory that indicates preferential logics" is about the only part which is well-suited for this forum. The answer is yes: preferences are well-modeled by partial orders (see the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy entry on preferences). Because of the reflexivity and transitivity assumptions, a category can be modeled by a pre-order: we write x <= y if there is a morphism x -> y.

Being a partial order requires the antisymmetry constraint, which means that if x -> y and y -> x, then x and y are isomorphic (not necessarily equal).

Hope this helps. Even once you represent preferences computational, there is a host of other problems,including incomplete information, hierarchies of belief and bounded rationality.