a0412z ctpr
(oscillat, hippocampus, field, array, neuralink, observer, synap, cortex, vector, metaverse, qualia, neuron, category theory) convergence divergence transformation

The brain is strange to say the least. The EC Entorhinal Cortex might have 50k cells sending info to 1 million GC Granule Cells in the Hippocampus, and each GC is receiving data from 10k of the EC Cells. Signals are diverging & converging at the sametime.

The receptive field converges signals toward a cell, its inceptive field diverges signals towards another cell.

look up lateral inhibition or dephasing with entrainment

Neurons warping space
mass has spatial magnitude your brain is both setup to make and consider the spatial magnitude of action potentials in addition to their frequency

through multi-domain soliton waves crossing electric, magnetic, chemical, thermal, gravitational, and acoustic/mechanical/pressure waves

both the mass/energy or magnitude/frequency or amplitude/pitch or weight/occurance rate

Part of the answer to do with training data in the context of Human Neural Networks. We are trained with certain expectations. Part of it is nature. 

abuse hits more "nerves (neurons&glia)" for the majority of us, combines multiple brain areas, multiplying offensiveness.

Actually this helps explain why murderers have legions in the occipital lobes

What I mean is that violence in a 2D video game is different from violence in real life, but what you get in VR is different from both, engaging the human brain in a new way.

I'm not aware of whether what people are attracted to in virtual reality can also be correlated with neural dysfunction from brain injuries, or diseased legions from cancer, inflammation, oxidative stress etc. It would be a future area of medical research.

link Theta entrainment memory improvement capture in hippocamous + neuropype concept of time comparison for learning between dofferent domains of unstructured data

can I show with category theory how all the wave types mechanical, electrical allow a time based synchornization of sensory modalities which are detections from different wave spectrums

Connect Michael Gazzaniga biology & symbols argument to category theory & biology

squid game started out interesting but then the plot of the squid game went in the wrong direction,
it should have been a story about testing AI weapons, specifically they never brought the AI back after that one scene it became a story of how people treat each other to achieve some goal

the human brain is a weighted matrix, a 3D matrix with multimodal sensing across phase domains
delta waves on earth

human awareness has delta waves

so when we observe a particle field it changes to match our brainwave frequency

the whole field has changed not just the observed electrons but the whole field's delta wave has become tuned because of its encounter with a delta wave observer.

think about how the television emits alpha waves, well the earth emits a wave frequency, the field of space emits a wave frequency that changes its oscillation to harmonize with our thoughts

telepathy and like oh my gd I'm a computer system space is also a computer system and I'm interacting with it and you.

the inner field and the external field are being generated moment by moment as a single field

its not two different fields interacting, the human awareness as a delta field, theta field, alpha field, gamma field, and beta field is being written as one single field with the same spacetime around it, bith fields are the same one oscillating vibratory field

holon a minute and read this!

I'm visualizing taking that 3D vector field modeling tool and using it to describe the electromagnetic field around a person and within their brain overlaying a transparent 3D volumetric video of their head captured in real time with real time changes to the vector field map representing what the bci is detecting with meg eeg fnirs fmri and dti + neuralink

I can make 3D imaging with voxels
imagine a real eye and then a voxel art eye
with equations on the voxel art

the once divergent silos of physics biology math and computation are converging again in my book

Self Aware Networks

I thought of modelling my own brain

I want to say lets be on your side Tim Sweeney.
We can make a self aware network with unreal engine, we can make the system oscillate like a real brain, representing the space that's in your brain. 

What I don't under stand is what stops any planet from collapsing into an all consuming blackhole at any time?

Why does reality maintain this shape at this time?

The stuff I wrote down today is like exactly how qualia works

the lsoliton waves traveling across synapses are not just waves they are distinct waves shaped by the cells history

If you want to reduce visibility. You can pick your situation. Lower the light on your computer monitor, which reduces visibility over distance

"At the end of the day its just an array" the brain, memory, the universe, space, spacetimemassenergy is just an array that is stretching and contracting in both time and space preferring certain convexing intervals between both, aka powerband frequencies, the stuff that both our minds and space time is made out of 

this is happening:
alpha waves coming from television
earth emits a frequency Solfreggo
when frequencies interact their collective action is multiples of their components distributed over a vector field that is the representation of their combined frequency oscillation

in other words the vector field of space time and the mass of space time are examples of two different spatial/temporal patterns that are the inverse of multiplying micro-frequency patterns that are multiplying when they oscillate together harmonically.

So at the end of the data the length and dimensions of the spacetime array in 3D and in time are stabilized in a sense by brainwave patterns, which are also spacewave patterns. The delta/theta frequencies of observation and attention actually entrain observed space in their frequences, like oscillators entraining other oscillators. However this means that telepathy, sending patterns through space, its inevitable.

I'm seeing bits of my vision being played out across the screen of the matrix between the entorhinal-granule cells and the hippocampal CA1-CA3 neurons.