a0448z ctpr
Sep 3, 2013
(ATP, endorphin, dopamine, transmitter, conjecture, synap, emotion, semantic, neuron)
 Robert Karl Stonjek No, this is wrong. Neurotransmitters such as these are links in a chain, so to speak. It is like suggesting that we only travel in order to burn fuel, because that is what happens every time we drive. (Micah Blumberg says ''nt might be represented as the sand in the waves under the ocean.'')

These neurotransmitters are not pleasure, but links in a chain of events that result in the feeling of pleasure. That the system can be short circuited at this point only shows up the vulnerability of the system.
10 hours ago · Unlike · 16

Marlicia Travis What about oxytocin and Relaxin?
10 hours ago · Like · 2

Filip Gęsiarz Technically speaking, dopamine is related to wanting/craving reactions, and liking/enjoying is more related to opioid, endocannabinoid, and GABA-benzodiazepine neurotransmitter systems http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2756052/
9 hours ago · Like · 8

Suzanne Fisher ...Was hoping to boost the overall system with a light-hearted MEME 
9 hours ago · Like · 3

Ted Grabowski "Oxytocin, Oxytocin--We Love our Oxytocin!"
Ted Grabowski's photo.
9 hours ago · Like · 7

Robert Karl Stonjek You win the lottery and are happy.
I can short circuit this by simply telling you that you had won the lottery and you would be happy.
Or I can short circuit the system even further and simply change neurotransmitter levels and you will be happy.

What *really* makes you happy? Clearly the fake measures are transient and inconsistent with the reality of your actual situation. But we like short cuts (hence TV, alcohol etc...)
8 hours ago · Edited · Like · 3

Micah Blumberg hey remember endorphins and acetylcholine
8 hours ago via mobile · Like · 3

Marlicia Travis Yes I was thinking about ACh too. Aren't they all wonderful!
7 hours ago · Unlike · 1

Marlicia Travis Did you know that if you use endorphins the right way during labour it minimizes the pain phenomenally. Drugs that make you feel good 
7 hours ago · Unlike · 1

Diana Cryder I got it, Suzanne 
5 hours ago · Like · 2

Michael Gabriel Song To be dreadfully nit picky, it's not serotonin and dopamine, but their appropriate receptors that impart the euphoric experience. Depending on the receptor these neurotransmitters also have the capacity to signal unpleasant thoughts and feelings 
2 hours ago · Unlike · 2

Marlicia Travis Yes they do. Its the nerves that have it. Those lovely little excitatory nerves!
2 hours ago via mobile · Unlike · 2

Marlicia Travis Feelings........
2 hours ago via mobile · Unlike · 2

Robert Karl Stonjek There must be some mechanism by which a stimulus from one sensory modality can, under some conditions, stimulate a number of unrelated modalities.

If I *tell* you something (eg 'I Love You') then those warm loving feelings (or the 'fight or flight' re...See More
2 hours ago · Unlike · 1

Emil Bohman what about just pure experience?
about an hour ago via mobile · Unlike · 1

Radek Stupak this is oversimplification. also, what about endorfines?...
about an hour ago · Unlike · 1

Radek Stupak and what about oxitocine?...
about an hour ago · Unlike · 1

Micah Blumberg oxytocin
about an hour ago · Like · 1

Micah Blumberg I already said endorphins, but what about endolphins? just kidding
about an hour ago · Edited · Like

Radek Stupak yeah, endolphins!  
about an hour ago · Unlike · 1

Radek Stupak and dopabonobos. 
about an hour ago · Unlike · 1

Micah Blumberg "what about just pure experience?"
How about no there is no such thing as pure experience.
about an hour ago · Edited · Like · 1

Radek Stupak well, the only way to answer that question is to have a pure experience... but that's beyond the language and logic of science, i guess.
about an hour ago · Like

Radek Stupak (but that doesn't mean there is no such thing, it may only mean that science is not capable of grasping "pure experience")
about an hour ago · Like

Radek Stupak (yet?)
about an hour ago · Like

Micah Blumberg no I mean the language is problematic, incoherent, meaningless, how could anything not be also pure experience? who is to say what is and what isn't pure experience, the question itself is nonsense
about an hour ago · Like · 1

Emil Bohman If I smell a flower, neurotransmittors is more like a gateway to bring about the full experience in my mind, right?
about an hour ago · Like

Micah Blumberg you can't quantify pure experience, or even experience if you can't separate it from something that isn't experience, or experienced in some way
about an hour ago · Like

Radek Stupak i know what you mean. but what i mean is that some things exist beyond any language and thus speaking about them seems incoherent or nonsense, though it doesn't prove that those "experiences beyond language and logic" don't exist or are nonsense.
about an hour ago · Like

Micah Blumberg at somepoint experience is everything, and experience equates to everything, so what your really asking is "what about just pure everything?"
about an hour ago · Like · 1

Micah Blumberg "what about pure everything?" is a nonsense question just like "what about pure experience?" is a nonsense question.
about an hour ago · Edited · Like

Radek Stupak and pure everything is cosmos  and so far nobody really knows what cosmos in it's absolute is. 
about an hour ago · Like

Radek Stupak (universe)
about an hour ago · Like

Robert Karl Stonjek A system to distribute the feeling to otherwise unrelated modalities. This 'crosstalk' is very common in human consciousness and is much broader than the simpler emotions mediated by neurotransmitters.

For instance Beethoven symphony No.6, the Pastor...See More
about an hour ago · Like · 2

Micah Blumberg The nerve is the axon right?
about an hour ago · Like

Radek Stupak and music is a form of language.
about an hour ago · Like

Black Square Radek Stupak Nah, it ain't. You need syntactic forms and mappings onto semantics. Music doesn't really work like that.
about an hour ago · Edited · Like

Micah Blumberg It's the nerve that feels, and the result of that feeling must be after the extra electrical potential has passed to the synapse, and that's when the neurotransmitters are released into other cells. So the neurotransmitters are sent out after the feeling has happened.
about an hour ago · Like

Black Square Robert Karl Stonjek Whereas the ultraviolence after hearing the 9th is purely dopaminergic 
about an hour ago · Like

Micah Blumberg Orange you glad I didn't say dopabanana? My comment was right on time, like Clockwork.
about an hour ago · Edited · Like · 1

Robert Karl Stonjek Stockhausen and John Cage stimulate the LSD receptors (assuming we have such things)...
about an hour ago · Like

Micah Blumberg Receptors mold themselves to receive specific neurotransmitters as if they were adapting to receive nutrients, like nicotine. So if LSD becomes a neurotransmitter, receptors will adapt to LSD, then you have LSD receptors. The receptor change must coincide with a structural change that effects with the criteria that determines when a neuron fires and in response to what types of patterns a neuron will fire.
56 minutes ago · Edited · Like

Black Square To be a neurotransmitter, it has to be synthesised by the brain, among other things. Part of the structure of LSD has a tryptamine backbone, as does serotonin. It activates several serotonin receptors because LSD can fit in the active site and stabil...See More
56 minutes ago · Unlike · 1

Robert Karl Stonjek Yes. And there is a very wide variety of neurotransmitters, they are not a separate class of molecule. There is a gas (NO) and several hormones in the mix!!
53 minutes ago · Unlike · 1

Black Square Incidentally, the drug amyl nitrite (poppers) works by breaking down into NO in the bloodstream.
52 minutes ago · Unlike · 1

Micah Blumberg Isobutyl nitrite works the same way??
49 minutes ago · Like

Micah Blumberg What about ATP, can ATP act as a neurotransmitter? Can anything?
48 minutes ago · Like

Radek Stupak Black Square music has got it's own syntactics. it doesn't have semantics (at least in its' conventional meaning).
47 minutes ago · Edited · Like

Micah Blumberg answered my own question http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16487603

Historical review: ATP as a neurotransm... [Trends Pharmacol Sci. 2006] - PubMed - NCBI
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov
PubMed comprises more than 23 million citations for biomedical literature from M...
See More
45 minutes ago · Like · Remove Preview

Micah Blumberg on topic fasho http://www.thurstontalk.com/.../

ATP: Your Energy Source And Neurotransmitter
www.thurstontalk.com
  Submitted by David Overton We used to think fat
43 minutes ago · Like · Remove Preview

Black Square Yes, all alkyl nitrites work in the same way. The main difference is that the number of carbon atoms in the alkyl group determines how easy the NO can fall off.
43 minutes ago · Unlike · 1

Micah Blumberg what about Jalapeno Poppers, do they work the same way? (joke)
42 minutes ago · Edited · Like · 1

Black Square See the Neurotransmitter article on wikipedia for the criteria for being a neurotransmitter.

Drugs are exogenous, so they're not neurotransmitters. Also, although, e.g. DMT is produced by the brain and some (as yet, unsupported) conjectures suggest it can reach high enough levels under certain conditions to stimulate receptors, it does not do this under normal physiological conditions. Thus not a neurotransmitter.
13 minutes ago · Edited · Like

Black Square No, those you stick up your arse and your heart rate goes bonkers while you wait for the toilet to become free.
40 minutes ago · Like

Robert Karl Stonjek Drugs are not neurotransmitters but either stimulate neurotransmitter release (eg psychoactive drugs used to treat depression) or mimic drugs (I wonder what stimulates nicotinic receptors).

But drugs are not neurotransmitters. Indeed, many neurotransmitters will not even cross the blood-brain barrier and must be synthesised in the brain from precursors (I think).
36 minutes ago · Unlike · 1

Marlicia Travis drug (drug) 
1. a chemical substance that affects the processes of the mind or body.

2. any chemical compound used in the diagnosis, treatment, or prevention of disease or other abnormal condition.

3. a substance used recreationally for its effects on the central nervous system, such as a narcotic.

4. to administer a drug to.
33 minutes ago · Unlike · 1

Micah Blumberg Black Square says "See the Neurotransmitter article on wikipedia for the criteria for being a neurotransmitter.

Drugs are endogenous, so they're not neurotransmitters."

Wikipedia article on neurotransmitters says...See More

Neurotransmitter - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
en.wikipedia.org
Neurotransmitters are endogenouschemicals that transmit signals from a neuron to...
See More
33 minutes ago · Like · Remove Preview

Marlicia Travis http://medical-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/drug
33 minutes ago · Like

Marlicia Travis Since when has Wikipedia been a valid source? Just saying
32 minutes ago · Like

Black Square @Micah Blumberg Sorry, a typo.

@Marlicia Travis In the context of providing the 'highest level of folk knowledge for general use', then always. It's only unsuitable for citation in an academic context.

When has looking words up in dictionaries been a substitute for academic knowledge? 
9 minutes ago · Unlike · 1

Micah Blumberg yeah but what is the typo because it seems like all these unreliable sources are contradicting Black Square & Robert Karl Stonjek's notion that drugs are not neurotransmitters, it actually seems that they are
6 minutes ago · Like

Micah Blumberg What is happening to your braincells right now? (humor)
3 minutes ago · Like

Robert Karl Stonjek In science and medicine, 'drug' is assumed to refer to something introduced into the body. Neurotransmitters, including endocannabinoids which are similar to cannabis and endorphins, which are similar to opioids, are not considered to be drugs.
3 minutes ago · Unlike · 1 