a0450z ctpr
(dendrite, dopamine, synap, neuron)
Cocaine Use Linked to New Brain Structures: Possible Mechanism for Drug-Seeking Behavior in Humans Identified
Aug. 25, 2013 — Mice given cocaine showed rapid growth in new brain structures associated with learning and memory, according to a research team from the Ernest Gallo Clinic and Research Center at UC San Francisco. The findings suggest a way in which drug use may lead to drug-seeking behavior that fosters continued drug use, according to the scientists.
http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2013/08/130825171724.htm 

Dendrites (from Greek δένδρον déndron, "tree") are the branched projections of a neuron that act to conduct the electrochemical stimulation received from other neural cells to the cell body, or soma, of the neuron from which the dendrites project. Electrical stimulation is transmitted onto dendrites by upstream neurons (usually their axons) via synapses which are located at various points throughout the dendritic tree. Dendrites play a critical role in integrating these synaptic inputs and in determining the extent to which action potentials are produced by the neuron. Recent research has also found that dendrites can support action potentials and release neurotransmitters, a property that was originally believed to be specific to axons.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dendrite

Cocaine is known to block reuptake, and the excess dopamine leads to an enhanced reward effect. Cocaine is also known to make the cells in the nucleus accumbens, which receives signals from the VTA, more sensitive to cocaine. It was already known a protein called brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the VTA region of the brain enhances the reward response to cocaine.
http://medicalxpress.com/news/2012-10-morphine-cocaine-affect-reward-sensation.html#nRlv

The brain's tactile and motor neurons, which perceive touch and control movement, may also respond to visual cues, according to researchers at Duke Medicine. The study in monkeys, which appears online Aug. 26, 2013, in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, provides new information on how different areas of the brain may work together in continuously shaping the brain's internal image of the body, also known as the body schema.
http://medicalxpress.com/news/2013-08-movement-neurons-brain-internal-image.html