a0464z ctpr
Aug 15, 2012
This could be a duplicate
(perception, cortex) Thought of the day: if Einstein said that space creates time, and we are space within space then we create time in time?
Unlike ·  · Unfollow Post · 9 hours ago near Haringey, United Kingdom
You, Dhanesh Solanki and Chad Venture like this.

Brian Bauereis Do you think that the space we take up within the space that Einstein is describing, are any different? Your thought reminds me of an incredibly interesting fact: our brains are actually able to slow down time during moments when we need the most time available! Individuals perception of slowing down of time, in moments of crisis, is not a perception at all. Maybe your thought of the day just became more interesting. I invite you to look up this wondeful and mind blowing fact. :-)
about an hour ago via mobile · Unlike · 1

Micah Blumberg Spacetime is one thing, space doesn't create time, it is time, time is the fourth dimension of space.
about an hour ago · Like · 1

Micah Blumberg Humans are not separate from spacetime. lol I am spacetime
about an hour ago · Like

Andreea Hempure Micah space-time are interdependent therefore one creates the possibility for the other to happen!
56 minutes ago via mobile · Unlike · 1

Andreea Hempure ‎@brian, I'll have a thought about that when I finish work tonight.
52 minutes ago via mobile · Like

Micah Blumberg If you watch starting at the 44 minute mark he talks about a new theory of how the brain does time. There is no clock inside, different regions of the neocortex experience time at faster or slower rates. The lower regions like V1 will experience time very fast while higher regions will experience time much more slowly. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=48r-IeYOvG4&feature=youtube_gdata_player

Jeff Hawkins - Hierarchical Temporal Memory
www.youtube.com
How a Theory of the Neocortex May Lead to Truly Intelligent Machines Jeff Hawkin...
See More
23 minutes ago · Like · 

Micah Blumberg it's really "spacetime", meaning its not two things :)
21 minutes ago · Like

Micah Blumberg it seems like if adrenaline shifted your conscious peak brainwave activity into the lower regions your sense of time would slow down
18 minutes ago · Like

Micah Blumberg fyi My Grandfather led the team that created gps and put the first gps satellite in space http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bernard_P._Randolph from him I learned that time on a satellite moves at a different (slower) rate than it does on earths surface where the curvature of space (related to the density of mass) is greater. It seems unlikely that a human brain is going to slow spacetime without reducing the entire planets density of mass. Gravity and Time are the same thing you see.

Bernard P. Randolph - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
en.wikipedia.org
Bernard Peter Randolph (born July 10, 1933)[1] is a retired United States Air Fo...
See More
9 minutes ago · Edited · Like · 

Micah Blumberg oh and this http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/notrocketscience/2010/05/03/time-doesn’t-actually-slow-down-in-a-crisis/

Time doesn’t actually slow down in a crisis | Not Exactly Rocket Science | Discover Magazine
blogs.discovermagazine.com
Neuroscience and psychology | I'm on holiday this week so I'll be reposting a fe...
See More

Tags:
  cortex, killed, spacetime