a0465z ctpr
Feb 26, 2014
(thalamus, cortex) 
Micah Blumberg I think it's not spiritual, it's physical. So lets say you could separate all the cells in the brain, and with advanced machines keep them all alive, each cell would only be a cell, no person could exist, then at some point when you start gradually reconnecting the cells together, the activity of one group of cells spikes activity in another group of cells, which in turn spikes activity in a third group of cells. The first group of cells might be set up to recognize pieces, lines, edges, even colors and within that cluster identify bigger patterns from those edges, letters, words, hands, flowers, as they fire as a bundle they trigger another group of cells which is all about coordinating the hands, all the feelings of a hand, it's relative location, what it's doing, and another group which is about feet, then it goes through a hundred other clusters, and a pattern of thought emerges, pieces of an image become a flower, which physically inspire hands and feet, which creates some movement, and now the image of a word, a voice region pronounces the word, a vision reason creates a visual from the word, the word is self, this cycles activity back around to the flower, the feet, and hands, and it is these cycles of activity that begin to stitch together some higher thought patterns, unifying multi-sensory concepts, that exist because of cycles in the mind. These unifying multi-sensory concepts literally drive their own development, like new born chickens breaking out of an egg, because these patterns send massive torrents of feedback to lower levels cells, coordinating them, to support, to align and look for the unifying concept. So people look for more of themselves with their senses in the external world when self concept is driving the mind. I think this is why the self concept of ego isn't the real self, it's an illusion that creates more illusion. Even trying to not think about the self, or trying to have no self, is more of the same. Some people have a medicine, and they try to say the self is everything and nothing. Instead of seeking, they are just knowing it's always everywhere and nowhere. So there is no reason to seek it in the external.
19 hours ago · Edited · Like · 1

Gvido Ólafur Eiríksson seems like a relatively complex way of saying what you are looking for is the one who is looking
3 hours ago · Unlike · 1

Sævar Poetrix Guys, spirituality hefur nákvæmlega sama vægi og fótboltaleikur. Ekkert er slæmt. Við deyjum öll. 

Þú getur gert það sem þú vilt en það er engin holy truth. Allt er truth.
18 minutes ago · Like

Micah Blumberg What you said is extremely clever and insightful Gvido, but honestly I was trying to say that there are only these physical pieces, it's like the cells are cogs in a clock, and the mind is a time keeping machine. Self is a broken concept, it can't be fixed or found, it's meant to break.
42 minutes ago · Like

Gvido Ólafur Eiríksson how do you explain out of body experiences?
31 minutes ago · Like

Micah Blumberg well I don't try to explain everything for everyone, but in my mind they are dreams, like any other kind of dream or hallucination
30 minutes ago · Like

Gvido Ólafur Eiríksson but they also happen while the body is clinically dead.
many have had their bodies revived and after that reported, that while their bodies were dead, they were seeing, from an extrabodily perspective, e.g., the medical staff around the body.
22 minutes ago · Like

Micah Blumberg brain activity does not simply stop when a person flatlines
18 minutes ago · Like · 1

Gvido Ólafur Eiríksson i think that some of the "dreams" people have reported are things that have been confirmed as correct by those who were awake while the person was dead––i.e. the person saw things without the bodily sight which were not mere hallucinations but real events. so it seems there is consciousness outside of the body. i think the scientific community of the future will confirm this. confirm nonlocal consciousness.
10 minutes ago · Like

Micah Blumberg have you ever taken a class in computational neuroscience? or read a book on artificial neural networks? I ask because what we see is how the eye puts together an image from the retina, to the ganglion cells, eventually to the thalamus, and the visual cortex starting in v1 of the occipital lobes. What we think we see is that an image is made up of temporal frequencies representing lines and edges on some level, and coherent combinations of lines and edges at a higher level, so that from lines and edges a corner could be made, or movement detected, or color, or a letter, and from even higher up a word, or a rose, or some other visual pattern might emerge. It's because of the mechanical operations of all these pieces that an image is manufactured. because we can deduce this from current research it just seems a lot more likely that people are having highly detailed excellent dreams when they claim an Out of body experience. At least in my mind that seems more likely. 