a0468z ctpr
Jan 11, 2015
(Cereb, Cortex, qualia, neuron)
Micah Blumberg "Otherwise, consciousness would rather manifest itself preferentially in the cerebellum than in the cortex because the first has a bigger number of neurons. However, this is not the case."

actually there might be more consciousness in the cerebellum, nobody has proved that this is not the case.
2 hrs · Edited · Like

Matt Way What the hell do you mean by "more consciousness"? The circuitry and function of the cerebellum is quite well understood. Well enough to be trialling cerebellar prosthetic devices.
2 hrs · Like

Micah Blumberg it might supply a whole lot of conscious feeling that just goes missing when you don't have a cerebellum
2 hrs · Like

Matt Way What does "supply conscious feeling" mean? Why do people think consciousness is something that the brain pushes around? Makes no sense.
2 hrs · Like

Micah Blumberg conscious feeling is conscious feeling, it's a sense of feeling, this is a concept you have to use your intuition to understand
1 hr · Like

Micah Blumberg instead of the phrase conscious feeling we could try to say a self-referential modality network focused on predicting body sensations and body movements
1 hr · Edited · Like

Micah Blumberg someone without a cerebellum may have less self conscious awareness of their own body, which might explain why they walk in a way that looks like a person who is wasted drunk, the short way of saying that is "less conscious feeling"
1 hr · Like

Matt Way "conscious feeling is conscious feeling, it's a sense of feeling, this is a concept you have to use your intuition to understand"

Why don't you just say you have no idea what you are talking about. I also recommend you trust science and data over intuition when it comes to this stuff. Intuition has a very bad track record (flat earth, geocentrism, vitalism, etc).
1 hr · Like

Micah Blumberg As I explained in my subsequent comments I do know what I am talking about:

"instead of the phrase conscious feeling we could try to say a self-referential modality network focused on predicting body sensations and body movements"

"someone without a cerebellum may have less self conscious awareness of their own body, which might explain why they walk in a way that looks like a person who is wasted drunk, the short way of saying that is "less conscious feeling" "

thanks.
1 hr · Edited · Like

Micah Blumberg The idea is that neurons both individually, and collectively in a circuit can detect patterns that have temporal and spatial dimensions, and make decisions based on those patterns both individually and collectively, the cerebellum may detect physical sensations related to how the body feels and moves, which could explain why people who have lost or damaged cerebellums have more difficulty with movement and feeling. It is actually a reasonable idea to wonder if the cerebellum actually has more conscious feeling in it than the rest of the brain. It certainly is possible. I would not rule it out prematurely.
1 hr · Like

Micah Blumberg Intuition is valid computationally see Artificial Intuition http://artificial-intuition.com/

I read your blog Matt Way

"It is my belief that consciousness is not special; Not an extra substance, force, or epiphenomenon, but rather a process of computation no different to that running on the machine you are reading this on. To be more philosophically precise, I believe human beings are p-zombies. That at the heart of this discussion lies a mistaken intuition, coupled with a misplaced evolutionary desire for self importance. This article is by no means a proof, however I wish to emphasise that the onus now is completely on the qualia proponents to prove qualia exist, no matter how strong or globally shared this intuition is" http://www.compressionaddict.com/.../building-conscious...

I'm not talking about some consciousness as some special mystical sauce. Just like I'm not talking about intuition as something that isn't computational.

I think neurons detect coincidence patterns, and make directional inferences to build spatial and temporal representations within neural circuits including within the cerebellum.

When I speak of conscious feeling, I'm not talking about mystical sauce, I'm talking about machine learned patterns shared over a network of signal detectors and signal transmitters.
Artificial Intuition
AI, Artificial Intelligence, Computational Intelligence, Artificial Intuition, Epistemology, Philosophy, Bizarre Systems, Bizarre Domains, Chaos Theory, Complexity
ARTIFICIAL-INTUITION.COM|BY MONICA ANDERSON
2 mins · Like · Remove Preview