a0467z ctpr
(perception, vector, neuron) 
Micah Blumberg it means your self is an on the fly calculation and thus there is nothing to upload
20 hours ago · Like

Micah Blumberg look the neurons are like switches, adapting to any task, did you read the part about selection vectors and line attractors? It doesn't make sense to you after that? Here is a quote

"If question was about motion, the selection vector directed motion information to the line attractor, and the artificial neurons chose left or right."

see the neurons are just adapting themselves, lending themselves to any kind of calculation, they don't have identities, they take on representations, wearing representations, being the color, being the left or right motion, being the line attractor, or the selection vector

being you is just another line attractor, who you are in this decision right now is up to some selection vector, it's like a universal computer, able to calculate anything dynamically by being free of a static identity

I guess this can really be hard to accept if you have other reasons for why you need to have a self, why you need to be uploaded, fear perhaps? IF it's fear keeping you from accepting the idea that you have no actual self that isn't an on the fly calculation, then just don't be afraid. It's okay to not really exist.
14 hours ago · Edited · Like

Micah Blumberg The color and the motion are both tempo-spatial metaphors, as you would be. As for being an on the fly calculation, if you have any perception of self, that perception may be influenced by temporary factors such as, where you are, who you are with, and what you are doing. You can think of self as a direction, you can also think of self as imaginary, you can become identified with a character in a story, in a videogame, in a virtual world, there are even science experiments where you can be tricked to thinking you are standing behind yourself, or that your arm is not your arm. Scientists have trained monkey's to control virtual arms with their monkey thoughts. It is possible that someday you could be in a virtual world, identifying in the body of something alien, experiencing it so powerful that for a while it becomes you, and you forget about humanity.
