a0475z ctpr
A (metaverse) 

Silicon Valley Global Network

Meta Government Notes created after having some conversations with folks about this

Silicon Valley is not a region locked concept anymore, it is a metaverse unto itself, it transcends the globe.
so we need a Meta Government, built on blockchain that protects all of the citizens of the Global Silicon Valley. This meta Government will work within the existing region locked state governments to protect our citizens, the citizens of the global Silicon Valley no matter where they live. There are people who work at Microsoft, Google, Apple, Facebook and hundreds of more Silicon Valley tech companies located in every part of the world, including the six places that Trump tried to ban travel from. We need to protect all of the people of the Silicon Valley Global Network, and that's why we need a Meta Government. Our global governing alliance that transcends politically driven borders. Who likes this idea?

Hat Tip to Evelyn Noctis for this link:
https://github.com/the-laughing-monkey/cicada-platform

Is the UN based on blockchain, resistent to quantum hacking, transparent, is it dictator and tyranny resistant? Is the UN design to counter propaganda with thousands of anti-propoganda bots that will make it impossible to control any population with government sponsored news?

I think people should be able to choose for themselves if they want to represent themselves or if they want they can choose a representative who will fight on their behalf.

I will help start a global block chain based government, that protects its citizens globally, by working with the existing land based governments. 100 percent transparent and based on each individuals voluntary participation. Who wants to join? Who wants to help build it?

Individuals will also soon be able to elect to have Super AI to represent them, to nominate super intelligent bots to protect us, and fight for our interests.

Participation is totally voluntary, so whether you like it or not, it will be there for those who do like it, for those who do want an ally to protect them from tyranny around the world

This Meta Government will eventually have authority and power inside the US and everywhere on the planet and in space, but it will achieve this the right way, legally, through influence and agreements with people in region based governments.

Historically there have been oppressed minorities in the US. The US government has violated UN laws and violated agreements with Native American's stealing land, and building on land that belongs to Native American tribes without their permission and with their explicit protest. So we need allies against Tyranny everywhere on the planet. To in some cases work to protect the interests of minorities against a local region locked regime. Recent news regarding the North Dakota Access Pipeline as an example of the US breaking it's treaties with Native American tribes.

The Meta Government will work with existing region locked governments, including the US, to protect the interests of the citizens of the Meta Government. 

We can gain influence and power the right way, legally, within the laws of each country.

A person can represent themselves or they can choose someone to represent them.

So it's a combination of representative and direct democracy, in otherwords your vote matters, but you can combine your vote with a representative if you want.

I don't see the United States extending protections to the employee's of Silicon Valley in every single country? So obviously we need a Meta-Government that does protect the people we want to work with in every single country.

So that anyone in the world can have the same rights and protections as if they were equal to a US Citizen, and that's an important and good thing to do.
