a0482z ctpr
note created Aug 19, 2012
(Observer, synap, neuron) False: B
clippings for deadly editing

Is observation an action by an actor whose name is the observer?

For a thought experiment you assume a singular observer, in each person, but suppose this observation is actually expectation.

You have an experience, then you expect another, you've had so many experiences that maybe your not really sure what to expect next. So instead of saying its a specific expectation, you go with a more general term, and you say it's observation.

Observation is your neurology automatically attempting to predict the next sequence of events, you call it awareness, artificial intelligence experts call it memory-prediction

Every neuron in your brain is expecting, 84 billion expectations firing all the time, there is no singular observer. Just billions of expectations.

There is no biological truth to "one see-er", it's a fiction, a social contract, an idea, it's not real. a convention, an artificial distinction, you have two eyes, two nostrils, two ears, why not assume that every person is two people? or believe that every person is half a person, until they meet their other half. the "observer" is a mythical construct, lacking an existence beyond the concept of the observer, it's a concept, not a reality

Your eyeball has millions of sensors, so you could say you are millions of sensors in each eye, I mean if you need your identity to be the observer, it's not really, your not "the" mythical "observer" you know. your not that

 you can say you are trillions of connections (connectome), forming redundant neural concepts, redundant memories, that define our existence and every thought and emotion we will ever have in the semi hidden context that it is all a sea of redundant extremely complex conceptual models that serve as predictions to guide motor reflexes based on all life experiences

Individuality is a concept, like the observer, its a distinction, from dualism, dualism is in some sense artificial, its the map of reality, but it isn't reality, it's not the territory. Individuality as a concept is not a complete illusion, but its also not completely real. Without the mind, there would be no such artificial concept as an individual, or an observer, but these concepts 'do not' have to have an objectively real reality to be useful. knowing that the observer is not really real, and knowing that the individual is not really real means that these concepts are no longer able to serve as the emperor's false clothing. The naked self cannot be clothed by any concept. You are not that.

your not the artificial map of reality that describes what you are, your more than your mind will ever know, but see that is a trick, because it is the mind that forms a model of the mind and the world around the mind, the world around the mind is a prediction in the mind, and yet the real you is the real cosmos outside the mind, this is very tricky to understand

everything you know about the real world is a prediction in your mind that is informed by the real world world, you are the real world not the prediction in your mind, so in a sense you can only see the part of you that is a reflection of the real you

the world I see is a sparse reflection of the real reality that is the whole me

the mind itself can be incorrect, but you cannot be incorrect, you are objective, the mind is perpectually orienting itself using an overwhelming number of redundant guesses, in each moment, based on previous experiences, anytime the mind is producing something unpleasant that isn't you, thats a mind out of attunement. 

remember you can't see the real you, not through the mind

you are pure happy joy
you love your true self so much, the mind loves your true self so much

be uninterested in unhappy thoughts, be apathetic toward uphappy notions or anything unpleasant, all negative things are boring

let the mind know this

then it will like a baby, stop playing the games you don't care about, and start playing the games you do care about.

stop being interested in wall streets prediction of doom, find it boring, then in boredom and apathy you find it easy to focus on what you really want, on whats joyful, juicy, and fun.

Imagine you are a four dimensional diamond like polygon with eight sides, and each edge is golden fire like the sun, imagine you are objective, you are true, you are unchanging, you are eternal, then imagine that inside this is a cascading eight dimensional fractal, that includes a cosmos, every brain, including your brain, and inside your brain, existing as synapic connections is a concept of you as "a four dimensional diamond like polygon with eight sides, and each edge is golden fire like the sun" Now you know your concept of you is a mere sketch of what you are. Yet while the brain is your window into grasping what you are. Your brain's image capture rate is .0000000000000001 of what is actually real. So mostly what you know about your golden fiery self is this incomplete prediction in a mind, you know you are truth, perfect, divine, objectively real, and at the same time, you know your brain needs to have a very partial & narrow view of the whole of what you're perceiving. All that you know about your real self is from a model in your brain. A model that is wholly informed by the real you, while at the same time always being an incomplete map of you, never the whole reality of how amazing you are. Eternally expanding, and forever incomplete.
