a0493z ctpr
Jan 11th 2013
(brains are for movement)

The structure of thoughts only begin to have meaning in the context of movement and rewards, brains are for movement
 
I think is that 'meaning' the word itself implies a spatio-temporal sequential analogy of causes that cannot be made if the temporal aspect is absent.

I think that spatial structures in lower dimensions can have meaning, but only in a four dimensional context of movement.
about an hour ago · Edited · Like

Abram Demski Does the Penrose tessellation lack meaning?
about an hour ago via  · Like

Micah Blumberg The question might be where does the Penrose tessellation have meaning? To a two or three dimensional being? I just don't think so. Penrose tessellation begins to have meaning to a being in a four dimensional context of movement.
about an hour ago · Like


I'm not sure).
about an hour ago via  · Unlike · 1

Micah Blumberg "Your argument appears to be that the Penrose tiling and other static
structures can be meaningful, but only temporal entities can have
understanding of meaning? Hm."

Close.

I'm kinda thinking that meaning is the morphism, in category theory it's the arrow between objects, creating an analogy. It needs a four dimensional context to be an analogy to another four dimensional context, and the bridge, arrow, or morphism as the device of isomorphic association, creating the analogy, that is yet another dimension, the meaning dimension.

You can also relate a monad to it's identity, or it's element, or it's object.

An object without time, without the context of movement (time) is like an object without an identity.

Without identity, what is meaning?

I guess to revise myself, it is perhaps not that Penrose tiling has meaning, but I think it is that meaning as a dimension can be added to, or connected to Penrose tiling.
9 minutes ago · Edited · Like

Micah Blumberg One of the many sources for the direction of my thinking on this topic:

Daniel Wolpert: The real reason for brains
Neuroscientist Daniel Wolpert starts from a surprising premise: the brain evolved, not to think or feel, but to control movement. In this entertaining, data-rich talk he gives us a glimpse into how the brain creates the grace and agility of human motion.
http://www.ted.com/talks/daniel_wolpert_the_real_reason_for_brains.html 