a0515z ctpr
(criteria, causation)
Free Your Mind!
It is easy to get seduced by the world you see ever day of your life. The Sun rises, and Sets, and many are not even aware of a similar motion of the stars, ...

Micah Blumberg I didn't watch the video, but my response to the title is basically: so your not a determinist Matt?
10 hrs · Like

Micah Blumberg I didn't watch the video because it's irony to judge a link with that title by the title or surface, without looking deeper.
10 hrs · Like

Matthew Bendyna This isn't something to judge based on the title Micah Blumberg.
If you didn't watch it, you've no idea what it's about.
9 hrs · Like

Micah Blumberg I watched half of it, then I stopped it, the first half of the video has nothing to do with any counter point you could possibly make to my comments.

Are you a determinist Matt? Do you think a person can just choose their beliefs?

It is ironic to comment on a video called "free your mind" first before watching the video. Clearly not everyone understands irony.
9 hrs · Like

Micah Blumberg Finished the video. "free your mind" it's a meaningless mantra as used here.
9 hrs · Like

Micah Blumberg Actually now that I've seen the video, I did know what it was about by the title before I watched it. I guessed correctly.
9 hrs · Like

Matthew Bendyna It's more poetic than anything else. It's not promoting pseudoscience. If you watch t-foots other videos, you'll know he's among those spending their time debunking pseudoscience.
7 hrs · Like

Matthew Bendyna The point is the beauty of reality is more fantastic than that of superstition.
7 hrs · Like

Micah Blumberg evasion...
6 hrs · Like

Matthew Bendyna Evasion of. . . What exactly?
5 hrs · Like

Matthew Bendyna I am a determinist. I recognize that our minds are just atoms following physical laws. How does that even relate to this video?
5 hrs · Like

Micah Blumberg In the video, the narrator keeps repeating the phrase, free your mind. You say you are a determinist, do you think you can free your mind, or is it just irony that you are sharing a video that promotes this message?
5 hrs · Like

Matthew Bendyna Free your mind as in causing it to imagine a perspective outside the geocentric perspective we experience, to think of the motion of earth and imagine it spinning and moving at the high velocity it is. Neither I nor this video promote the existence of free will.
2 hrs · Like

Micah Blumberg how can you cause your mind to be free if you don't have freewill?
2 hrs · Like

Micah Blumberg no don't answer that, this is too much over your head. you don't seem to be seeing that the non-existence of freewill and freeing your mind are a paradox
2 hrs · Like

Micah Blumberg if you don't have free will, you can't free your mind, I can't expect you to understand that can I?
2 hrs · Like

Matthew Bendyna *facepalm*
Never mind. This is nothing but a type of poetry glorifying the beauty of reality. Kind of like the way Carl Sagan did. You could say that it's pointless to hold values or develop objectives without free will. I don't.
2 hrs · Like

Micah Blumberg You are information, a temporal and spatial metaphor, a story, and you can change your own story, because braincells can reprogram other braincells, http://www.amazon.com/The-Neural-Basis-Free.../dp/0262019108

The Neural Basis of Free Will: Criterial Causation
www.amazon.com
The issues of mental causation, consciousness, and free will have vexed philosop...See More
1 hr · Like · 2 · Remove Preview

Matthew Bendyna Micah Blumberg
I don't agree. You're arguing from complexity here. Suggesting that having many many different elements in a set interacting and affecting the set in complex ways is not an argument for free will. When you break it down, it's still just atoms following the laws of physics, no matter how complicated you make the structure.
1 hr · Like

Micah Blumberg your missing the point then. It's ideas, information, concepts, from the top down, that are reprogramming the brain. there is nothing else that could be called freewill, this is the only thing ever meant by the term freewill, that high level concepts can have meaning that causes change in a person.

it's not about atoms reprogramming atoms from the bottom up, it's about information causation, and that is the only thing ever meant by proponents of freewill
1 hr · Like · 1

Matthew Bendyna Micah Blumberg
If that's how you define freewill, I don't disagree. The term however makes me think of dualism.
12 mins · Like

Micah Blumberg what I am saying now is a different conversation, but I will say it. Dualism is all there is, non-dualism can't be distinct from dualism, because distinction is dualism
7 mins · Like

Micah Blumberg through reading, conversations, and meditation a person can reconsider, reprogram, react differently, and change their own life. this is information causation, and this is the only thing that could be meant by proponents of freewill, and the non-dual is also never non-dual. That's an esoteric teaching from triadic heart yoga
1 min · Like 