a0525z ctpr
(emotion, self-aware, cortex, neuron)
Self-Aware Networks, Human+Artificial, NerveGear

Micah Blumberg is the Founder of Self-Aware Networks, Human+Artificial, NerveGear

Lets explore Neuroscience to build next generation Artificial Intelligence, and lets connect the brain to the machine to extend our minds.

We are, meaning our brains are, self aware three dimensional neural networks.

Lets learn to how to build self aware three dimensional neural networks. Lets build artificial versions of ourselves. Lets make artificial souls. Let there be artificial souls that mankind can make. These are the core topics that this group intends to focus on and explore.

On the one hand it is valid to say that this is a group about sentient artificial intelligence, human level, emotionally self-aware machines, and it is also a group about the human brain.

Our knowledge objective will lead to understanding how to build next generation technologies. New technologies may include artificial neurons & glia that can interface and replace real neurons & glia. Artificial brain tissue, artificial cortical columns, artificial cortex, artificial brain stems, and whole artificial brains will result from the knowledge work of this group.

Nerve Gear: Its an esoteric term for Brain Computer Interface used in the anime series sword art online. Nerve gear means brain computer interface or mbraib machine interface, other terms might be neural link, neural lace, fulldive. Nerve gear is a bidirectional brain to computer interface, to read and write to the human brain and the computer.

Nerve Gear is a next generation brain computer interface (BCI) and the development of this technology means reading and writing to the human brain as if the brain was just a special kind of hard drive.

With Neural Gear we can change what appears to be reality at the push of a button, and also so we can download what appears to be reality to share it with others.

It would be as if your eyes were cameras and your ears were microphones, and the data is machine learned by the natural neural networks of your brain, but essentially it means your an organism that developed the ability to create analyze and react to video and audio feeds via it's eyes and ears.

This is a group of researchers & cognitive architects committed to the task of designing & building Nerve Gear.

That means in part Virtual Reality and Augmented Reality via a direct connection between your brain and a computer so that you don't need glasses. AR and VR without glasses.

To accomplish this we need to build new brain computer interfaces (nerve gear), we need to apply deep learning neural networks to medical imagining in new ways, and we need to figure out the communication protocol that allows groups of neurons to send and receive packets of data as brainwaves to and from one another.

Neural Gear will enable computer directed Lucid Dreaming, and the technology is the key to developing artificial neural cortex that can connect to the human brain, and in addition it is the key to technology needed to develop artificial brains that we can use to transfer the human mind into.

The accomplishment of this goal involves a broad number of research subjects, like computational biology, cogntive neuroscience, how memory processing works in the dentrites, cortical column networking protocols, bio-compatible artificial neurons.

Topics that belong in this group include papers on Cognitive Neuroscience, Computational Biology, Computational Neuroscience, Deep Neural Networks

Topics that are welcomed include Brain machine interfaces, Computational Biology, Cognitive Neuroscience, Neural Lace, NerveGear, Brain Machine Interfaces, Neurophysics, Psychophysics, Neuropsychology (but not general psychology.)

Topics related to major companies working in deep learning or on brain computer interfaces or on neuroscience related news as long as its not promotional or spammy material. No solitions, no advertising for conferences, no asking for papers, no hiring or recruiting, nonpromotions of other clubs or other groups.

