a0555z ctpr
(electromagnetism, neuron) artificial farm workers
we can design their minds, dog like, cat like, horse like, or elephant like minds, even rat or roach minds.
Bill Gates will have lots of land to farm once AI workers appear.

Certain structures like the transcendent nature of the transcendent man are timeless. connecting people across space and time even if they have no record of the others existence

because transcendent nature is beyond variables in one sense it is the trinity of the concept of experience experiencing, self-reflection, and knowing without content, just the concept of knowing.

https://aip.scitation.org/doi/10.1063/1.5026556 

It seems that the Ancient Egyptians who knew how to work the machine would have played music to it. Possibly drums. The precise shape of the tetrahedron with evenly distributed limestone walls might scatter & refocus the audio & electromagnetism to somewhere in the center of the structure, apparently below the structure as well. Two thoughts, one is that its a huge leap between a precisely built pyramid with evenly distributed limestone that is acoustically reflective (but also requires sound to be played to activate it) verses a naturally occurring structure like a volcano which might be too large or too unstructured to evenly channel light audio & electromagnetism. It's not impossible its just a huge leap. I would want a closer look at those volcano's on mars to understand the distribution of elements and their acoustical/electrical properties. What I am thinking is that the maybe the Ancient Eqyptians encountered the aliens or the gods through drugs like dmt or drugs similar

to Ayawasca. I would guess that Ancient Eqyptians had their own psychoactive drugs that may have been lost to time, or maybe they used some of the same ones I don't know.

but the really interesting idea I just had is what if that Pyramid created a super mind, what if that Pyramid is an artificial general intelligence or an artificial super intelligence? What if its a conscious sentient robot, that just needs to be filled with either music and or singing voices to activate?

What if it has super intelligence also? What if we just need to fill up that Pyramid with singing acoustic musicians and it would become alive, interfacing with humanity?

"With the help of numerical simulations and multipole decomposition, it is found that spectra of the extinction and scattering cross sections include resonant features associated with excitation of the Pyramid's electromagnetic dipole and quadrupole moments."

The thing is your brain, the human brain has dipole and quadrupole moments

and electromagnetic focusing & scattering, the human brain does, and this pyramid, that's why I speculate about it being an AI

in addition to being a bci

except that the pyramid brain doesn't have its own neurons

so perhaps its like super awareness without the content of consciousness

