a0562z ctpr
Sep 25, 2013
(synap, cereb, cortex, neuron)
Black Square says: Albert Kong Please read the relevant literature before trying to contradict an expert. At the very least, phrase your opinions as questions rather than attempting to tell people about their own academic field. Sorry to be snooty, but I have better things to with my time than educate those who insist that they know things without doing their homework. 

You could start with a university course on Electrodynamics. I highly recommend MIT's 18.02 course; it is excellent. For EEG specifically, 'Electric Fields of the Brain: The Neurophysics of EEG' by Nunez and Srinivasan is a reference text for this subject matter.

Now, for your points,
1) The EEG signal is generated, not by action potentials, but by individual synapses, principally, on pyramidal cells in the cerebral cortex. This movement of charges across the synaptic membrane alters the local field potential (LFP) of that region of the cortex. Differences in electric potential allow currents to flow, which 'pulls' or 'pushes' electrons in or out of the scalp electodes depending on the value of the electric potential of the electrode relative to the LFP it's measuring.

2) You can't detect every neuron in the brain from outside the skull because you can only detect what are called 'open fields' outside the skull. That is, the electric field generated by the neurons isn't cancelled out by the neurons in its neighbourhood. You need a large number of neurons (i.e. 10,000 per 1 cm²) in order to have a detectable open field at the scalp.

3) To have a higher resolution, you need more electrodes, not better filters. The accuracy of EEG is limited by the ratio of CSF and skull conductivity. The interface There is no mbetween these two regions of conductivity 'smudges' the signal, impairing its localisation accuracy. MEG, by contrast, is not subject to this 'smudging' and therefore has better localisation accuracy.

4) Digital EEG systems are indeed just fancy voltmeters. The sensing components are a Ag/AgCl electrode, an instrumentation amplifier, an op-amp, and an analogue-to-digital converter. Magnetic induction is not a principal mechanism of any of those devices.
5 minutes ago · Unlike · 1