a0569z ctpr 
Jul 14, 2012
(synap, layers, neuron) Yes I've experienced death in dreams too. I've experienced stuff weirder than death actually. I once awoke in a new reality, thinking I was about 15 years old, assuming I was a special needs person, like someone with down syndrome or brain damage, and I was hanging out with these young men who had volunteered to take me on a trip. Then I realized I could not remember my name, their names, where I was, where I lived, my mind had amnesia. What's worse is these guys were not nice guys who were taking special kids out for a nice day. These guys were guys from work, and I had been playing football with them only 45 minutes before. They barely knew me, and they were freaked out by what I was saying about not having any memories. So they gave me my keys, pointed me to my car, and pointed me to the freeway. So I got on the 605, used my phone to call "Dad" who I figured could probably tell me who I was, and how I could drive home. Over the next hour, my memories gradually came back, in pieces. I drove my car home safely. Later those guys became my friends, but they honestly thought I was fucking with them. They didn't believe in mental illness, or amnesia, or brain injury, it was a myth to them, I was just strange and frightening to them on that day.
4 minutes ago · Like

Micah Blumberg Another time I traveled through a parallel dimension of spacetime, into another universe. To visit some amazing new people, who I had connected with because psychoactive mushrooms had become the gateway between realities, and as I walked Berkeley and San Francisco with these men who were both born women, I was in three layers of reality at once, and reality was breathing, and I saw people who had seemed like individual before, but I realize that they were like 200,000 people all at once, each person was like another parallel reality of the same person. They all said "I am" as if they were all unique, but all of these unique individuals were all the same, sharing a quality of their personality, that I realized the personality was transcendent, the personality was driving them and not the other way around.

I remember as a child, trying to hold onto the grass, as the world turned upside down, the earth lost gravity, the grass felt apart in my grip, and I fell into the sky. As a child I fell out of the top of a bunk bed, and got a concussion. When my head hit the ground, there was sharp pain. Sudden Darkness. Then like those old tube televisions, turning off, I felt by brain shut off. Watch this clip, but it wasn't like seeing this, it was like feeling this. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WX3ivTj8oTQ&feature=related

TV Static Turn Off Effect
www.youtube.com
TV static/turn off effect made in Sony Vegas Pro 9. Free download link for your project: http://www.divshare.com/download/16017893-8bc
3 minutes ago · Edited · Like · 1 · 

Micah Blumberg I remember dreams in amazing detail, I have for years, they just get more detailed the older I get.

Actually you could also called that a brain shutoff and reboot, because I didn't actually die, and I had another experience of my brain rebooting, where I was somehow aware of parts of it gradually waking up and becoming more active, assessing the situation, the internal damage, lots of speculation about something having gone wrong in my head.

Once I had what felt like a fever, and I became aware of my awareness as both an electric river and an electric song, flowing through my brain cells.

It's not that it was death, but it was for me the experience of what death is like, when a brain is dead, there is no electrical activity, similarly when a tv is shut off, their is no electrical activity. The analogy is strong, and the experience made sense too.

My experience of sensing my awareness as an electric song and or sensing my conscious mind as a stream of consciousness is not an isolated experience. There is a book on EEG that is called "Symphony of the Mind" your brainwaves are coordinated neuron patterns like as if each neuron was the instrument and member of a grand orchestra musical. I didn't conceptualize it at the time, but it was one of those odd things. Have you ever stood on the Seal Beach pier in California from 5am two hours before dawn, to see the most amazing pastel colored sky, light blues and pinks, and then suddenly this gold sunlight that was so vibrant it was like fire in the sky. Like nothing else on earth looks exactly like the Sun, it's unique. The same thing was true when I experienced what I describe as "awareness" or a conscious stream of electrical activity, that was both mundane and magical like the Sun at the same time. To experience it is to experience something unique, something that could not be anything else. Maybe "awareness" isn't the perfect word for it, but whatever it was, it was singing my thoughts.

It was as I was part of the awareness looking at another part of the awareness. Just as easily as how you are part of a human, and when you look at your arm moving you are noticing a part of yourself moving. It was nothing more complicated than that.

Today, using a computer to attach light and sound to brainwaves, I train people to recognize their own brainwave patterns. First you watch, learn the patterns over time. Then gradually you notice that as your internal state changes the light and sound on the computer changes. It changes with your thoughts, feelings, and internal representations. You make the connections between feeling, which is also now a brainwave, which is now a sound, and also light. You start to play with it, and soon you can really make the light bright, you can make the sound louder, increase the pitch, increase the speed, the reverb, all with your thoughts and feelings. Overtime you connect the dots and realizes that this EEG is scanning brainwaves, your thoughts and feelings are these coordinated waves, they are coordinating your bodies movement, second by second, you begin to sense them, and control them, the same way you control your arms and legs. Even without the light and sound you can still sense your brainwaves, and coordinate brain in a more conscious way. For example, if you get punched in the nose by a rude punk, and your car gets hit, and you are in a fury, but you have an interview in 5 minutes, and you have to be calm to give a great first impression so you get the job. Well that is really hard to do, unless your aware of how you are coordinating your brainwaves. Your feelings and your inner states of happiness are something you control, depending on how aware you are. I think that means how connected you are. With my machine, because we fire isochronic light and sound beats at you, while your doing this, we make your neurons fire harder, neurons that fire together wire together, and form rapid bonds, that increases the speed at which you learn your brainwaves, and expands your self awareness even faster compared with other EEG. So you manipulate your happiness and inner state just like your opening and closing your hand. So you imagine the upset as a marker in your hand, then you open your hand, imagine dropping the marker, and drop the negative feelings with the marker. This is how easy and how fast it can be, when your brain is able to make this coordination happen, because of all your new neural bonds between regions of the mind. Your brainwaves are moving all the time, but it's just like your hand moving, it's not weird it's different. So you quickly drop the pattern of negative feeling. YOU ACE YOUR INTERVIEW!


fixed some sentences above
11 minutes ago · Like

Micah Blumberg I've been writing run on sentences since I was in grade school. It's not that I can't use correct grammar, I can. Somehow, when I am writing, my brain feels such enthusiasm, while putting words and letters together, I am in my mind having a very sensory experience while writing. I'm thinking about the sequence of concepts, and not at all about the structure of sentences. With each word there are visualizations of what other people might interpret from it. It feels like music to me when I am writing. I want it to be in a stream almost, not separate by periods, and commas. It's a song of concepts. Then later I realize I really need the punctuation, and grammar, because otherwise the sentences do not read the same to me as when I first wrote them down from my mind. So in doing Neo Mind Cycle I have these moments right now, where I become very aware of my cognitive process, while doing something, like writing. I begin to notice reasons why I might want to change the way I write. To develop grammatically correct sentences first, before enthusiasm hits the enter key. As I rethink it, a reorganization is happening, in my physiology. Rethink your life, you will create real change every time you do.

In the brain everything is triggering or inhibiting everything else, highly coordinate sequences of brainwave activity are both triggered by sensory data, and are triggering higher levels and lower levels of sensory data to make representations at the same time these brainwaves are both triggering and being triggered by muscular data controlling and receiving the bodies movement every second. When something needs attention, like an emergency, it travels a special route to your conscious self, more rapidly involving more areas of the brain all at once, in less coordinated brains this can result in people becoming frozen during an emergency because everything is activated, and that includes all their inhibitions. That's why contingency training and emergency training is so valuable, when everything is activated all at once, your brain needs to have an already learned path, otherwise it's going to be slow going. When you realize how your feelings as brainwaves are reflected in a light pattern and or a sound pattern, you begin to build a bigger concept around your feelings, brainwaves, and how what your doing is effecting the light and sound. As long as your mind senses a reward in this activity, it continues, and with the stimulation we provide via isochronic beats in all frequences it feels good. So your mind learns its brainwaves by making more connections among synapses (neurons that fire together wire together) that eventually begin to represent what is happening, it's a concept created by connections between synapses. Gradually your mind is making a map of what's happening, a map of the causes within the mind, so when presented with the opportunity to do something more coordinate, that might result in a long term or short term reward, your more likely to do it, because that pathway has been built, that pathway of your choice to do what you want to get the reward is the physical concept created by connections between the synapses from neurons that fired together in sequence during your experiences. These learned patterns in synapses, then begin to be applied to other areas of your brain and your life, because all the cells are modular, any part of the brain can work with any other part of the brain, but the key to that happening is the patterns formed through learning. Cross synaptic learning, which is the core of what Neo Mind Cycle is. It makes you more flexible mentally.

Tags:
  book, Brains, brainwaves, choice, killed, Neuro, neurofeedback, website