a0560z ctpr

Feb 26, 2012
(cortex, neuron)
MyBook5 / MindMapKey / IAmAVortex / HowCatsHunt

Do Cats think?

Intelligence is cellular, awareness is a stream of expectations, or as Jeff Hawkins says "thinking is prediction" prediction is a narrative that coordinates movement, so if it has a brain and it moves then it makes predictions about what is there and that is thinking.

Cats are natural hunters, and that means they sit and listen, a lot, that's meditation (sitting & listening) so the average cat is far more likely than the average human to accidently become an enlightened being.

F.B. 
"Micah, what about the case where something else does the thinking/moving for a human, something I would not call a narrative or the act of predicting? It's more on the involuntary side and it comes from an unknown place. Not to say the other type of intelligence has no use ......"

Micah Blumberg
"F.B.? Can you give an example? Are you talking about instinctual reactions from the autonomic nervous system like pulling you hand away from a hot stove involuntarily before thinking about it just because it's hot? Technically intelligence in the autonomic nervous system works the same way, its just optimized differently because its a smaller system that works without direct input from the brain, but it's technically the same kind of intelligence at work."

F.B. 
"One example is when you stumble across something you are looking for when you don't really know where you are going.
Another example is when a solution to something you've been trying to get the answer to suddenly pops up in your consciousness (under similar conditions)
Another example is when I play an online shooter game. When someone is not in a certain state and I am my crosshair will find their head quickly (headshot is automatic win). And vice versa."

Micah Blumberg
"F.B. I think your entire mind is automatic. It's always sorting incoming sensory data into categories to discern paths to what the body wants. So stumbling across something you are looking for even without knowing where you are going is the sorting process. Your senses bring in data about the surroundings that creates a distinct impact in the neural categories (neurons) that your mind uses for sorting and making distinct predictions (neurons anticipating) about what is going to happen next and what is there now (neurons actually firing) resulting in a solution (prediction response) popping into you head that represents a sequence of neural patterns that have actually fired in your head, and the effect of a solution "that came out of no where" sensation happens because those same neurons that fired inhibit nearby neurons from also firing, resulting in answers that are surrounded by blank spots, women often think this is intuition and call it psychic power. The certain state of being ready to fire in the video game mirrors the certain state of neurons in anticipatory mode ready to fire in the brain. Literally if you do a warm up mentally or just by playing the game a little while, and then do a moment of deliberate relaxation so the fired neurons can reset, (like mediation Jedi master) you'll get your neurons into an anticipatory state, and be the better shooter for a time."

F.B. 
The thing I found interesting in the game example is that players will respond to each others states even when they can't see each others physical bodies or hear each others voices.

Also, ridiculous headshots have happened. Like my opponent will be behind a wall (all I know is that they are behind a wall, not where, and I can't hear them) and a headshot will happen. Or they will be quickly moving in the air(much faster than ground) and a headshot will happen. Also, I am not special in doing this. It doesn't happen often but many people who play have done it.

I can see how we were talking about more similar things from the start than I had originally thought.
41 minutes ago · Unlike ·  1

Micah Blumberg
When a cat is on the hunt it is listening, meaning that the neurons closest to the sense organs are the most active. Thats like when you are looking for the opponent in your crosshairs, knowing your opponent is right behind that wall, maybe not knowing exactly where, but being literally physically more ready to shoot. When you and the cat spot some novel sensory activity, that starts a chain reaction of neural firings traveling up the linked neurons in the neocortex into more categories (neurons) which represent more sorting. So if the mind sorted that you (or the cat) are "not looking at an interesting target" then that information is sent back down to the bottom to keep searching. If you (or the cat) notice an actual target that is interesting, like the rival player you are about to take down (or a bug), then the neurons light up like a christmas tree all the way to the very high fifth layer of the neo cortex where most motor controls are. (Grey matter) Neurons there send signals down through (White matter) mylinated axons (your highbandwidth fiber optics in a way) which activates proteins triggering muscle movement in a highly coordinated sequence, where you experience taking the shot (or the cat experiences launching its whole body at the target). Each time you do a headshot a bit of myelin (like wax or plaque) is added to that neuropathway, so that each successive time you do it in the future you get faster and better at headshots. After ten thousand hours of playing (or doing anything) so much myelin builds up over those repeatedly used neuron/axon paths that your brain processes the hunting and shooting 100 times faster than a newbie to the game.
2 seconds ago · Like

Tags:
  killed