a0578z ctpr
Note from Jul 19, 2012 - Hippocrates quote
Quantum Sensors, Immunotherapy, Closed Loop Therapy

Immunotherapy Cart T Cancer
Advanced brain & body imaging could be used to track the progress of immunotherapy treatments to figure out what the patients reaction is to the therapy faster so that therapy can be adjusted as needed for each patient.
https://www.sciencenews.org/article/cancer-genetically-engineered-immune-cells-car-t-therapy-remission

Quantum Sensors
These quantum sensors are believed to be much more accurate than either EEG or fMRI scanners, due in part to the fact that the sensors can get closer to the skull. The closer proximity of the sensors to the brain can not only improve the spatial, but also the temporal resolution of the results. This double improvement of both time and space accuracy is highly significant as it means brain signals can be tracked in ways that are inaccessible to other types of sensors. https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2021/11/211118203739.htm

Traveling Nature of Brain Waves may help working memory work
"An especially underappreciated aspect of the phenomenon is that waves spatially propagate, or “travel,” through brain regions over time." activating brain areas with rythmic oscillator & varying rotational (sometimes clockwise, sometimes counter clockwise, with different directions being associated with different conscious & behavior activity patterns.)
https://neurosciencenews.com/prefrontal-cortex-waves-memory-19988/?fbclid=IwAR1tRtgu6tLVKwJAIZPBWxQuIpw16XGw1IkYnoyRzA9mDJzHH_5PMgG--aM

These activiting patterns are activing parts of the rendering that makes up your experience of reality, all the things you hear, sense, see, feel, and so on.

Micah Blumberg6:05 PMEdit
Aristotle suggest that, contradicting Hippocrates, theoretical thinkers like Aristotle haven't spent time with brain damaged patients, the sick and the dying, observing and documenting neurological disorder's with objective tools like Hippocrates did. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/michael-graziano/the-spirit-dies-when-the-brain-dies_b_983852.html﻿

‎"Men ought to know that from the brain, and from the brain only, arise our pleasures, joys, laughter and jests, as well as our sorrows, pains, griefs and tears. Through it, in particular, we think, see, hear, and distinguish the ugly from the beautiful, the bad from the good, the pleasant from the unpleasant..." quote Hippocrates



Tags:
  book, quote, website