a0588z ctpr
(perception) GAMMA BRAIN WAVES: 30/34 – 100+ Hz (cycles per second)
Gamma waves are the brain’s optimal frequency associated with increased compassion, optimal brain function, awareness of reality and increased mental abilities. Though more rapid than beta waves, gamma brainwaves have virtually unnoticeable amplitude and can be found in every part of the brain. Gamma waves serve as a binding mechanism between all parts of the brain and help to improve brain function and perception.

BETA BRAIN WAVES: 12-30/34 Hz (cycles per second)
Beta brain waves are known as the awake state, indicating a strongly engaged mind. The Beta brainwave state is where we focus, learn, create, study, memorize, write and function in our day to day lives. Low Beta is associated with concentration and alertness and higher levels of Beta activity are associated with stress, anxiety and fight or flight reactions. Lack of low beta activity is associated with disorders such as depression, ADD, addiction, OCD and other anxiety disorders.

These are the waves of alertness, wakeful state. Most common and most prevalent in the brain. If you are alert and awake, you are in Beta now.

Beta  are the brainwaves of our "normal" waking consciousness, of our outward attenion, of logical, conscious and analytical thinking. High frequency beta ("splayed beta") is seen with restlessness, stress, anxiety, panic or while our inner critic or commentator is active. Splayed beta can be differentiated from the low frequency beta of the awakened mind, when thinking feels clear, alert, creative and to the point.
 
ALPHA BRAIN WAVES: 8-12 Hz (cycles per second)
Alpha is a state of relaxation and daydreaming and the state associated with pre-sleep and pre-waking drowsiness. Alpha brainwaves are associated with an effortless state of consciousness. Watching television can induce your mind to slip from Beta to the Alpha state, and children tend to play in Alpha. Serotonin release occurs in the Alpha brain wave state, at about 10 Hz.

Associated with relaxed wakefulness, and creative thought where attention may wander and free association is favored. They are also correlated with a generally tranquil, pleasant, almost floating feeling.

Alpha brainwaves (14 - 8 Hz) are seen when we are in a relaxed state, daydreaming or visualizing ("sensualzing" seems to be more appropriate as imagination in all senses - hearing, kinaestetic, smell, taste etc. - stimulates alpha waves. Your visual sense may not nessariliy be the strongest for you. Some people rather feel an inner knowing). We need alpha waves as the bridge to the lower frequencies ot the subconscious (theta), if we want to remember the content of our dreams or our meditation, or if we want to retrieve information from our subconscious. For this reason alpha is especially important in combination with other brainwaves.

THETA BRAIN WAVES: 4-8 Hz (cycles per second)
Theta brainwaves are the second slowest brainwave activity. Theta occurs when your conscious mind is disengaged, such as in dreaming sleep, REM (rapid eye movement) sleep and deep meditation or self hypnosis. Many adults only attain the Theta brainwave state in their sleep, and can not seem to reach or sustain the Theta state when they are awake. Interestingly, the planet Earth resonates at a Theta frequency of 7.83 Hz, a frequency known as Schumann Resonances.

The theta-state is described by sleep researchers as stage 1 sleep or the twilight state. In this states subjects pass out of the alert alpha-state into a theta-state in which they lose their sense of lying in bed, though still being awake.

Theta (7 - 4 Hz) represents the subconscious. We see theta during dream sleep (REM sleep), meditation, during peak experiences and creative states. In theta we find unconscious or suppressed parts of our psyche as well as our creativity and spirituality. Theta images are usually less distinct and colorful than alpha images, sometimes of a blueish color, but they often feel more profound and meaningful. As long as we only produce theta brainwaves, their content will stay inaccessible to our waking mind. We need alpha to bridge the gap between theta and beta brainwaves to consciously experience or remember theta content.

DELTA BRAIN WAVES: 0-4 Hz (cycles per second)
Delta brainwaves are the slowest brainwave activity. Delta brain waves occur during deep, dreamless sleep and are seen predominantly in newborns and infants. Delta brainwaves rarely occur in adults.

Associated with deep dreamless sleep. Consistently observed in deep sleep. The deeper the sleep, the higher is the amount of delta waves.

Delta brainwaves (3 - 0,5 Hz) are the brainwaves of the lowest frequency and represent the unconscious. If we only produce delta we will find us in dreamless deep sleep, but we also see delta in various combinations with other brainwaves. They may then represent intuition, curiosity, a kind of radar, hunches or a "feeling" for situations and other people. Delta is often seen with people who work in therapeutic environments or professions and with people who have had traumatic experiences and have developed a "radar" for difficult situations.










Tags:
  brainwaves