a0591z ctpr 
Neo Mind Cycle
Intro
Theory
Causes
Location
Videos
Contact
Vision
Packages
Gallery
Reading

Outline of the Vision for Neo Mind Cycle
Neo Mind Cycle is a center for optimizing the memory, performance, intelligence, 
Hi John!

I come into Starbucks often enough, and you're cool enough to chat with me. So not only do I know some of your interests. That your an artist! I also know your email address.

Regarding your interesting in smart drugs, aka nootropics, I recommend that you see the film "limitless" as a primer. http://www.iamrogue.com/limitless/fullsite/html/

The people who make Google use smart drugs. Currently Modafinil is popular on the Google Campus as a replacement for caffiene. Expect to stay awake and productive for 20+ hours leading to potentially tough changes in your sleep cycle with that. However unlike similar kinds of stimulants Modafinil does not really keep you awake if you really want to sleep and make an effort to do so.

Sleep is very important to good brain health, and so is having a consistantly regular daily pattern of behaviors for the bodies internal 24 hour clock: the circadium rhythm.

There is a particular mind machine (Mindspa) that is useful for resetting the circadium rythum, for the long term improvement of sleep patterns, and it's available at my office for clients to schedule time for their own use with it.

Another powerful way to enhanced your brain's creativity is with the first class Pramracetam, or the business Aniracetam, or the economy class Piracetam (listed in order of how powerful they are) You can find these at http://cognitivenutrition.com

I make a living doing brain optimization research, and services including a brain optimization program that allows people to visit my office regularly for weekly sessions of Neurofeedback driven Brainwave Entrainment. The regularity of a once weekly session for ten months with drive long term sustainable improvements in brain chemistry, health, creativity, intelligence, and happiness. Yes it is okay to miss a week. The results of even one session are powerful, noticable, and cause positive long term results. Including the feeling of a more integrated mind, more connections, more understanding, the profound feeling of expanded awareness, increased calm, more centered anger, faster problem solving. It's good to optimize your brain! There are many ways to do it! I want to share them with everyone!

My website isn't yet complete. You can see a preview at http://neomindcycle.com
When my website is complete it's going to be a central resource for all the ways a person can optimize their brain.

Including classes I am currently writing on neurophysics, brainwave theory.

People will learn about the history and theories behind:
Brainwave Entrainment
Neurofeedback (including an overview of different methods and applications.)
Brain Optimization
Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation
tCDS
and
Neo Mind Cycle

As well as common brain illness, the current treatments, the current thought on causes, and the upcoming solutions.

Alzheimers (Diabetes type 3)
Parkinsons
Cancer
Stroke
(Perhaps all caused by inflammation via fastfood)
Brain eating Parasites (under cooked meat, and contaminated water.)

Some words of wisdom of on ideal strategies for people who have family members with brain based illness's.

As well as Brain Imaging Technologies. Such as MEG, HEG, EEG, FMRI, DTI, tCDS.

Also theories of how intelligence works from the greatest minds in both the neurosciences and fields of artificial intelligence, from artificial intuition, to numenta, to google's work on vision.

I help people learn about, and use, easy techniques, practices, and facts to boost the intelligence, health, and creative power of brains.

Neo Mind Cycle is part of a healthy lifestyle, promoting a diversification strategy for mental stimulation on a regular weekly schedule, similar to the idea of muscle confusion in the p90x workout videos, I encourage people to cover their nutritional bases for good brain health, to consider something like a yoga class, and to set aside time once a week for at least an hour of meditation (with ear plugs and a comfortable blindfold)