a0607z ctpr (synap, semantic, metaverse, perception, oscillat, neuralink, dendrite) 
Self Aware Networks, Artificial Neurology, Nerve Gear

life is an oscillating network of oscillators that cooperate so that we maintain their collective equilibrium, when complex vortices combine forces to stay motivated and alive

synchrony is cheap photo is about an evolved dissipative system maintains theta/alpha brainwave synchrony because its cheap

a computer is not an oscillating system inherently, it could be. its absorbing energy to maintain its oscillation
which is what defines both dissipative systems and living systems which consist of multiple cooperating dissipative systems in chaotic synchrony

the thermodynamics of consciousness, slower oscillations are going to be aware of and perhaps disturbed by phasic burst firing patterns, because fast non-oscillating information representing waves of phases are costly and inherently disturb and threaten to destabilize the low frequency group oscillations

and group clapping is like a phasic clapper burst joined by other phasic clapper bursts until a slower group oscillation clapper event happens followed by the slowdown and cessation of clapping as the room runs out of clapping energy

a vortex is closer to a resonator, which could be described as a transient or decaying oscillator

I'm gonna argue that neuroscience threw out the baby with the bath water. lol

the individual incongruent opinions of voting neurons were considered to be noise

1. Neuroscience
	1a. Macro: Connectome, the flow of information in the brain, networks of the brain.
	1b. Meso: Oscillations, Brainwaves, Cortical Columns
	1c. Smaller Neural Circuits, and Micro dendrite to MVR function, electric/chemical synapses.
	1d. Coincidence Patterns
	1e. Tempo-Spatial-Phasic

2. Nerve Gear: Neuralink, Openwater, EEG, MRI, FNIRS, OPEN EIT + Deep Learning. Multi-modal bci approaches.

3. Robots, VR, AR, Volumetric Video, Deep Learning, 3D Semantic Segmentation, John Carmack from VR to AGI. AI multi-modal approaches (GP3), Pointnet++

4. Biologically plausible artificial brains. Perception 2021, Brain extensions, Metaverse, Simulation, Numenta , FPGA, Comp Neuro

Conclusions: What about If (brainbdend

The Neurons synapses, via Potassium are preseting the criteria for what patterns the neuron will respond to, and they are presetting the shape of the wave form of the axonal action potential, by changing the time for when it closes, which will determine the amplitudinal/frequency deviation from its local oscillatory body should its threshold be triggered early into a phasic burst or should it become inhibited from firing tonically.how 