a0600z ctpr
Artificial Internal Representation
copied to a google doc of the same name

Artificial Internal Representation & Conscious Self-Control

Every cell is basically a neural network, with its nodes being receptors, the receptors encode learned patterns by how their configuration changes on the cell over time, determining the cells sensitivity to learned patterns.
The natural selection of information configuration in physics follows the same principles of a neural network without being conscious, with the consciousness being confined to temporal-spatial phase frequency memory patterns in certain specific ranges, frequency & feedback ranges, while unconscious memory exists in spacetime outside those frequency/feedback ranges.
The extensive branching of the soma & dendrite on the pyramidal cell provides for a neuron that can hold extremely sensitive & complex engrams, such that any part of it’s large complex structure can predict the incoming direction from whence a new memory can arrive from.

We can think of what we see in Virtual Reality or in a Game Engines as a Precursor to the idea Artificial Internal Representation, one where graphics are rendered by neurons arranged in a 3D grid of neural arrays throughout the brain
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internalization

Micah Blumberg If we are talking about artificial internal representation, I think no one is doing that yet. I think statistics driven machine learning from Bayesian networks is simulating LTP, but not internal representation.
November 6, 2012 at 5:25am · Edited · Like · 1

Micah Blumberg If you have the concept of an apple, and that concept is a neuron (and or dendrite) which is a vertex with vectors to other vertex's (Neurons and or dendrites) establishing a specific syncing pattern in a network that has reacted to apple, and associations with apple, and now activates with this established vertices + vectors synching pattern when any part of vertex network is triggered, then you have a concept in a brain, a symbol, there is no reason why dogs brain would not make a concept in exactly the same way as a human's brain. The dog doesn't have the whole you inside it's brain, it has a conceptual representation of you, a symbol, that is a token of meaning, or a conditioned vertex syncing pattern.
November 6, 2012 at 5:38am · Edited · Like · 2

Micah Blumberg For a brain, there is no difference between a symbol and a color, at least not initially. The difference between symbols and colors develops when more brainwaves come, so that conditions new vectors to create an association link between vertex's, so they are more likely to fire together.
November 6, 2012 at 5:47am · Edited · Like · 1

Micah Blumberg I don't believe in some mystical consciousness sauce that is directing the manipulation of symbols inside anyone's mind. In other words, when we think we are rearranging symbols in our minds, it's really a bunch of cellular reactions happening, there is a narrative belief that says the doer of all this is you, but the narrative is physics driven.
November 6, 2012 at 5:54am · Like

Micah Blumberg If you gave a dog a bigger brain, hands, and human class vocal cords, it would do things that people do.
November 6, 2012 at 5:55am · Edited · Like · 1

Francisco Boni Neto And a dog with a bigger than human brain would create dog-cyborgs with superdog abilities that, in turn, would modify it's own source code to create greater-than-superdog abilities which would result in a dog singularity?
November 6, 2012 at 5:56am · Unlike · 2

Micah Blumberg lol yes I guess so haha
November 6, 2012 at 5:57am · Like

Micah Blumberg However I would like to think that dog's would remember that man is their best friend, and make human cyborgs, and then dog cyborgs and human cyborgs could turn all the species on earth into cyborgs together. 
November 6, 2012 at 5:59am · Like · 1

Micah Blumberg Commercial for "AGI-Extenda-Brains, a simple non-invasive external brain you can wear that gives you 200,000 times the awareness and brain power you had before. Great for Dogs, Cats, Babies, and even Dolphins. Get yours today. Only 99 IC"
November 6, 2012 at 6:03am · Like · 3

Francisco Boni Neto Is the problem of creating a more-intelligent-and-general-than-human-intelligence a problem of having enough computational power and time to capture enough regularities that are relevant towards modifying it's own self-sustaining processes at will? Just look at what evolutionary optimizations did to life on Earth after 3.7 billions of years. Is the tendency towards AGI-like computation inevitable? Ordinary evolutionary theory would say it is not. From a cosmic development POV and the Fermi Paradox, one could say that if the tendency towards AGI is inevitable, why aren't we finding example of the power of such civilizations?
November 6, 2012 at 6:09am · Edited · Like

So if we are a physics based simulation how is it that I can consciously edit myself & make choices?
Someone mentioned to me the idea that the concept of virtual machines in our computers as a metaphor for how the conscious level of abstraction in the brain might be like a virtual machine that has read/write access to other parts of the brain to edit one’s future responses to be in alignment with one’s predictions of the future.

Micah Blumberg Regarding your first paragraph: That's what you say and believe, but I don't. I don't think human identity is anything even remotely like pc based virtualization where you can run an OS inside another OS.
November 6, 2012 at 10:22am · Like

Micah Blumberg Regarding your last paragraph: I've done a lot of binaural beats, isochronic beats, neurofeedback, smart drugs and a whole host of other things to increase my connections, my awareness, my intelligence, my brain health, and I really don't like broad sweeping generalizations about what I can and cannot do.

I believe I can reconstruct in dialog human qualia experiences with functions based in neurobiology and neurophysics, I believe with my advanced neurotechnology people can become aware of their brains, their feelings, their thoughts, their blood, their neurotransmitters, and their electromagnetic brainwaves in a whole new way.
November 6, 2012 at 10:30am · Edited · Like

