a0632z ctpr
Note from: Apr 19, 2012
Comment on the note: What I think I was missing at this point in time (2012) was the part about how a memory-prediction was actually a rendering that a subsequent array or layer of nerve cells would read & interpret.

(perception, layers, emotion, memory-prediction, cortex, map, neuron)
/////////////////////////////////
http://www.news24.com/MyNews24/Quantum-Physics-and-Consciousness-20120418

Quantum Physics and Consciousness
www.news24.com
A few weeks ago popular science news outlets ran a story about scientists claiming to crack the “brain memory code”.

Micah Blumberg
When the map of reality expands even more so that becomes apparent yes! It is not this or that until it is, thats quantum superposition.

Micah Blumberg Our perception is a prediction, a complex network of associated predictions based on life experience. Predictions are a response, they manifest as thoughts (beliefs) they can be visual predictions or audio predictions or in an sensory modality! Using the term Prediction unites the "our perception" concept in which perception is like a gift, with the "conditioned by our present relationship" in which conditioning is the problem, and it creates a third alternative. We are neither perceiving nor being conditioned, we are neither receiving nor being punished, instead what's happening is one simple process, prediction, in the beginning the predictions are immature, and then in a long enough time line, provided the brain is healthy, and other conditions ideal (constant), then wisdom is the inevitable result. Wisdom being a more developed expectation, or a better map of associations in the network of predictions constituting some measurable improvement in some programmed process of movement toward hearts desire.

Micah Blumberg
There is no such thing as direct experience. All experiences are predictions. All thoughts are predictions. All beliefs are predictions. Emotion is a feeling based on predictions. Direct Experience is a myth, something Buddha and Krishna talk about, but it's not real, there is no such thing.

Micah Blumberg 
Rebecca, if I may recommend a book that would perhaps be of some value to you, it's "On Intelligence by Jeff Hawkins"

Micah Blumberg
I run a neurofeedback salon, nice to meet you. What do you farm?

Micah Blumberg
I think thinking of the word prediction as something similar to the word prejudice might be misleading you, it's more like memory-prediction, the mind interacts with life, and through life experience we develop a memory-prediction, a prediction based on what we experienced, that pretty much defines all the data in the mind as far as we know. Every thing we think we see out there is a memory-prediction, it's many layers of meaning constructed via associations learned over time, even when you think you are having this so-called "direct experience" you are really doing the same memory-prediction process that your brain always does, automatically, based on the physics of your brain's structure, and the ecosystem of life where your brain resides.

Micah Blumberg
right so as you sense something, an electric pattern is traveling up the neo cortex, and the statistically novel parts leave a bigger impact, so your memory-prediction is the learn response to that sensory-electrical impact, it's the tissue attempting to be ready for that impact the next time it comes, that's how memory-prediction works on the small scale. Maybe your doing as many as 5 quintillion memory-predictions a second, that's my guess.

Micah Blumberg
It's not a personal interpretation, it's based on a deep study of the whole field of modern neuroscience and cognitive science. Conclusions from scientific studies, applied in real life, in software, to solve problems using data from this research. We now have software and machines that think the way human beings think, using the memory-prediction formula. So this is far from just my perspective. www.numenta.com

Numenta
www.numenta.com
Mobile computing pioneers Jeff Hawkins and Donna Dubinsky founded Numenta to dev...

Micah Blumberg
As far as your question: "is there being in you that watches the mind?" Each neuron vibrates, like a musical instrument, and I have perhaps 84 billion of them (a recent number not everyone agrees with) together the instruments sing, and the song they sing is "I am" and am I this song? Am I this internal narrative? Is this my soul that is sung by the symphony of 84 billion musical instruments? Perhaps. Perhaps I am this song in my head that says "I am"

Micah Blumberg
The song plays everywhere, and all the 84 billion instruments that play this song are listening. They listen and play, play and listen, it's a loop. Being is a learning loop, like a feedback loop that learns, or a video loop, ever pointed a video camera connected to a monitor at the monitor that has the feed from the video? Get it?

Micah Blumberg
Have you ever looked between two mirror that were facing each other and seen into infinity? That's a kind of feedback loop!
What makes the neutron vibrate? gravity
Who listens to the song and understands the meaning? the song is a loop, the neurons that play it also listen to it
Does the software that can think like a human being, have being? you predict that you are a being, but that is a prediction
What is being then? a prediction of being, an association with some "self" that is like the nave of a wheel, the spokes of which are all the many views of your life and the world and every other view too...

Micah Blumberg
Is "to think" the same as "to be"? a thought is a prediction, and if you are think you are a being, that is another prediction also!
6 hours ago · Like

Micah Blumberg It's not only a prediction, it's a prediction based on both life experiences and the physical structure of your mind

Micah Blumberg I can recommend books, articles, but you don't have TIME to read. Well I don't have all day to educate someone on facebook on the last century of neuroscience. Even if I did do that you have to at some point figure stuff out on your own. I can't figure everything out for you. The information I have provided should be more than enough to figure out your own questions.

Micah Blumberg Your being is an illusion R., when you study more neuroscience the evidence shows you this, it's obvious, maybe you think it's an article of faith but it's not. It's obvious once you see the medical data and scientific facts. If you cut the brain in half, suddenly you apparently have now two independent beings. Maybe your thinking where did my second soul come from? http://www.ted.com/talks/steven_pinker_chalks_it_up_to_the_blank_slate.html

"One of the most dramatic demonstrations of the illusion of the unified self comes from the neuroscientists Michael Gazzaniga and Roger Sperry, who showed that when surgeons cut the corpus callosum joining the cerebral hemispheres, they literally cut the self in two, and each hemisphere can exercise free will without the other one’s advice or consent.

Even more disconcertingly, the left hemisphere constantly weaves a coherent but false account of the behavior chosen without its knowledge by the right. For example, if an experimenter flashes the command “WALK” to the right hemisphere (by keeping it in the part of the visual field that only the right hemisphere can see), the person will comply with the request and begin to walk out of the room.

But when the person (specifically, the person’s left hemisphere) is asked why he just got up, he will say, in all sincerity, “To get a Coke”–rather than “I don’t really know” or “The urge just came over me” or “You’ve been testing me for years since I had the surgery, and sometimes you get me to do things but I don’t know exactly what you asked me to do.”

Similarly, if the patient’s left hemisphere is shown a chicken and his right hemisphere is shown a snowfall, and both hemispheres have to select a picture that goes with what they see (each using a different hand), the left hemisphere picks a claw (correctly) and the right picks a shovel (also correctly). But when the left hemisphere is asked why the whole person made those choices, it blithely says “Oh, that’s simple. The chicken claw goes with the chicken, and you need a shovel to clean out the chicken shed.”

The spooky part is that we have no reason to think that the baloney-generator in the patient’s left hemisphere is behaving any differently from ours as we make sense of the inclinations emanating from the rest of our brains. The conscious mind — the self or soul — is a spin doctor, not the commander in chief."

http://www.mercenarytrader.com/2012/04/whos-driving-the-bus-reflections-on-cognitive-bias/

Steven Pinker chalks it up to the blank slate | Video on 
TED Talks Steven Pinker's book The Blank Slate argues that all humans are born w...

Micah Blumberg
a prediction about self, a prediction about what's there
Educate yourself, or meditate for the understanding to develop from within, you ask me conscious 101 questions. but I'm in conscious 303 class. You got to catch up on your own time.
 

Tags:
  choice, killed, neurofeedback