a0649z ctpr
"There is a cycling vortex, and attractor of brainwave activity that is
flowing, swooshing, oscillating with symphonic vibrancy to synchronize
new hebbian learning patterns into the oscillating network graph"

This note was created September 21, 2013,

Alan Turing said “we can only see a short distance ahead, but we can see plenty there that needs to be done.”

Micah Blumberg /////////////////////////////////////////////
I like what you said about movement. Yes, in final consideration what else are brains if not only for movement? Computation whether in a digital computer or a brain is a dance of fundamental particles with a flow of electrons taking center stage. It's amazing to ponder all of the different levels of organization unified in this constant kinetic dance.

For some reason I have always visualized neurotransmitters within a
single synapse at a time but I have never visualized billions of
neurotransmitters making the journey across their respective synaptic
gaps all over the brain at the same time. I just got a very cool and
vivd mental image of this and I was like "oh!" Saying "oh!" to an empty
room made me feel strangely like some kind of Japanese monk.

It seems movement is only half of the picture though. Emergent
properties make up the other half. It’s EASIER to talk about movement
because what emergent properties actually are and WHY they emerge are
baffling and mysterious questions. The emergent properties of certain
varieties of movement seem quite distinct from the movement itself. It’s
premature to say (there could be a new trendy theory next week for all
we know) but it is looking like the bedrock features of the universe:
time, space, matter, gravity, quantum probabilities, locality and
unitarity, etc.. might themselves be emergent properties of
amplituhedron geometry. If this picture eventually does succeed in
explaining quantum gravity, then human brains are going to be pondering
the amplituhedron for quite some time! If this “jewel” is the source of
an outwardly expanding explosion of complexity which human brains play
some part of, what does that mean? Why does anything actually exist
beyond some kind of primordial, platonic amplituhedron? In what sense
could matter be a logical consequence of geometry, in what sense could
consciousness be a logical consequence of computation or motion? The
“why” questions are still a huge mystery, but the “how” seems like it
has something to do with emergent properties at different levels of
organization. The term "emergent property" seems like something of a
cop-out, a place holder that we can talk about while we remain ignorant
of the "why". Yet we can still use the concept, it's actually extremely
useful. The reason why different levels of organization even make sense
is because of their emergent properties. If there were no interesting
emergent properties at different levels, then it would seem pointless to
even to even describe something as being a brain (rather then just
describing it in terms of say, a collection of quarks and gluons, etc.)
I love Democritus’ early take on this basic tension between fundamental
particles and emergent properties in this dialogue:

Intellect: “By convention there is sweetness, by convention bitterness,
by convention color, in reality only atoms and the void”

Senses: “Foolish intellect! Do you seek to overthrow us, while it is
from us that you take your evidence?"

The nature of the brain is relative: to an external observer it can be
looked at as 100% purely about movement, no matter how complex the
movement, it’s still just atoms in the void. Yet the qualia which emerge
for the first-person observer seem quite distinct from anything
physically reducible even if subjective experience necessarily co-exists
with physical and mathematical correlates. I think these qualia do
“exist” in a meaningful sense but our subjective experience is hidden
from the outside world or third-party observers. So far, perhaps this is
all obvious. But I think these observations lead to some strange and
under-explored territory...

Why is the brain conscious but a river isn’t? (or more to the point, how
could we ever know that a river is not conscious?) Ok, that is not
under-explored or even that strange, it is merely ridiculous given that
we know consciousness is an emergent property of brains and rivers are
nothing like brains. Slightly more interestingly, we might ask, if we
encountered alien minds, could we even recognize them as such? Even more
interestingly, what OTHER strange emergent properties (besides
consciousness) might exist in the universe?

Could even something like a plant give rise to some other kind of
non-physical phenomenon (note that I’m not suggesting that plants are
“conscious”, only that there seems to be a certain unknowability about
anything in the universe beyond the physical behavior of things and our
own subjective experience (and I’ll leave it to mathematicians to argue
about where math fits into this picture). 

This speculation might bring to mind the rather prosaic and overwrought
concerns of solipsism and the “other minds” problem, whether we’re
trapped in the matrix or whether some kind of deceiving demon is fucking
with our senses (these types of issues that have arisen over the years
are merely silly. It’s just silly to speculate that everyone but
ourselves might be a zombie or that we’re living in the Truman Show,
etc). 

While people rightly groan and roll their eyes at these sorts of ideas,
the idea that concerns me I think is more serious. I admit it is strange
to say this, but the assumption that complex non-brain systems have no
hidden emergent properties is nothing more than a human prejudice, a
bald assertion with no evidence. While it does make sense to think that
“consciousness” is an emergent property of brains therefore non-brain
structures are not conscious, it seems like a failure of imagination to
suppose that other interesting emergent properties of non-brain systems
don’t exist. 

Why should the universe be so boring?

This seems like one of our most profound blind spots and it’s odd to me
that it is so little appreciated. 

The hard problem of consciousness might well be intractable to humans
(but the Hard Problem seems to be only a particular case of what I might
call the “hard problem of hidden emergent properties”). Humans have a
tendency to project their own ignorance onto other potential beings, yet
I feel no hesitation in wondering if a more advanced being (either which
we might create in the future, or which could have evolved elsewhere in
the universe) could crack this puzzle. A being who could know
simultaneously what it is like to be itself, “what it’s like to be a
bat”, how another person experiences “the redness of red” or whether
some arbitrary configuration of matter has any hidden emergent
properties (in another words, a being for which these “hidden emergent
properties” are actually NOT HIDDEN!) I know this might sound bizarre.
But why should it? Isn’t the strange loopy self-reference of our own
existence bizarre? 

The thought of a meat computer finding anything bizarre strikes me as
bizarre. 

That’s of course no evidence that what I’m speculating about is true,
but I don’t believe it should be dismissed out of hand. The fact we’re
confined to one mind at a time and that we can experience nothing BUT
“consciousness” seems to constrain our view of the universe quite
severely. Just because it’s beyond our current reach to get closer to a
solution doesn’t mean we should just ignore it or pretend like we
already know the answer.

Ok, so what is the point of these wild-ass speculations? 

Well, it’s a way to pass the time and I’m bored. That, and I think that
being aware of our blind spots actually has practical importance if we
really do in this century embark on a journey to become “more than
human”. Usual discussions about this topic tend to focus on issues such
as how many times more powerful computers can become than the human
brain due to Moore’s law before reaching physical limits, how much of
the electromagnetic spectrum we’re blind to, how eagles or dolphins or
cephalopods have some abilities that humans lack, how being dependent on
a biological substrate limits us from exploring space, etc. Almost all
futurist memes focus on limitations of the body and our consciousness.

I think it makes more sense to take the broadest possible view of our
limitations and be humble about how frightfully little we know about the
set of “things that can exist in a universe like ours”.

I really like Roger Penrose’s idea of “three worlds, three mysteries”,
the idea that Mind, Matter and Math are all distinct but related, each
is in a sense contained within the others while the reason for their
relationship remains a mystery (and that this is perhaps contained
within an even greater mystery which lurks in the background). Why can
consciousness exist within a physical universe? Why does such subtle and
elegant mathematics match physical reality to such a remarkable degree?
Why can the mind comprehend mathematics at all, and for example
recognize that a complicated proof is true? What is that greater mystery
lurking in the background that might make this whole picture more
comprehensible? That greater mystery lurking in the background might be
all around us but perhaps we’re using the wrong method to find it, or
perhaps our inherited prejudices are blinding us to something simple and
elegant.

There seems to be a tacit and widespread assumption that “the brain is
the most complex thing we’ve encountered, our own mind is the coolest
non-physical emergent property we’ve encountered... ergo complexity or
biological evolution are necessary (though perhaps not sufficient)
conditions for cool non-physical emergent properties to arise”. Given
that our mind is also the ONLY non-physical emergent property we’ve
encountered, I don’t think we have a very strong basis for believing
this (although I admit the common view holds intuitive appeal). Since
I’m leery of intuition (which we evolved within a very narrow context),
I really do regard this whole issue as a legitimate mystery of the
universe we have not solved.

To summarize what I’ve been trying to say, rather than thinking narrowly
about “enhancing our consciousness” or whether we can create “conscious
computers”, I think it is interesting to think of consciousness as
perhaps just one of many interesting emergent properties that can arise
from particular configurations of matter. Understanding HOW and WHY
interesting emergent properties come into being seems like one of the
grand challenges if we’re to ever understand our universe. This is
really THE question. This is even more interesting to me than physics.
Physics is all about trying to measure the state of a system and making
future predictions about the system so as to uncover underlying
mathematics to describe these relationships. Given the existence of our
own consciousness, there could conceivably be far more interesting
things to learn about the universe than merely the mathematics that
govern the unfolding of it’s physical state over time. When thinking
about our own hidden emergent property of consciousness, it’s not enough
to say “evolution did it”, yes, in our case evolution did it, that still
doesn’t prove that say, a star lacks some hidden emergent property just
as our brain hides from the rest of the universe the hidden emergent
property of consciousness. I’m doubtful humans can make much progress on
this issue, but I wonder if a future AI might by virtue of its greater
experience with SELF-MODIFICATION, be able to make progress.

I don’t want to fall into the trap of thinking that “an AI can do
ANYTHING AT ALL”, and I realize I run that risk with these kinds of
speculations. Although we probably can’t get very far without actually
doing it, I’m still interested in how far we can get thinking about the
implications of radical self-modification. What might be learned from
radical self-modification? In what way does our relative inability to
change ourselves blind us?

It’s probably clear, but I feel like mentioning again that what I’m
describing might sound similar to pan-psychism, the view that
“everything is a little bit conscious”, but I emphatically don’t believe
in pan-psychism. Nor do I believe in pan-psychist tinged theories like
the view of Penrose and Hameroff that consciousness is in some way
inherent in Planck scale space-time geometry and that some kind of basic
unit of “consciousness” is created with every wave-function collapse. My
view is that consciousness is a very narrow phenomenon that depends upon
a particular type of classical Turing machine like the brain. To many
nerds, creating mankind’s last invention - super-intelligent “conscious”
computers -is the holy grail and telos of human science and technology.
But what could lie beyond human science? Could anything exist within our
universe that makes mere “consciousness” look boring in comparison? The
consciousness-centric view of reality seems as flawed as the geocentric
model of the universe and I suspect in the future it will look just as
primitive and antiquated (at least I hope so).

Even if what I’m saying turns out to be wrong, it would be thrilling if
it could actually be proven to be wrong rather then lingering and
forever taunting us as yet another insurmountable epistemological
roadblock . This discussion seems well beyond the scope of current human
brains, but that is precisely the appeal of this line of thinking. At
any rate, if consciousness is the greatest thing in our universe that
can exist beyond matter, and if consciousness is perhaps the ONLY cool
thing that exists beyond matter, the issue of what VARIETIES of
consciousness are possible would become the most interesting question.
When considering say, psychedelics or perhaps certain mystical
experiences or what Maslow called “Peak experiences”, it is amazing to
realize the range of conscious experience that can exist just within the
human brain. My own life has been a hell of a journey. We have obviously
explored just the tiniest sliver of conscious space that can exist in a
universe like ours. It’s appealing to view the future as a time of
vastly expanded consciousness, but I think it’s also worth entertaining
the possibility that this is too anthropocentric a view, there may be
all kinds of interesting “things” that are things in the way that
consciousness is a thing, but that are not consciousness.

If humans can merge with computers or upload our minds, it seems we
might be able to vastly expand our consciousness, but if consciousness
itself is transcended or in some way becomes obsolete after the
intelligence explosion, there could be some compatibility issues, so the
future might make a clean break with ancestral legacy humans. As long as
something that could be called consciousness is still on the table it is
my hunch that we can gradually, little by little, expand our
consciousness to become any arbitrarily intelligent superintelligence
that might exist and wishes to allow humans to turn into it.

Or not.

Yeah, I know these are just wild-ass speculations, but it seems like a
decent enough backdrop for more grounded discussions about how the brain
works. If we start in the far future and work backwards, different kinds
of issues might look important than if we confine ourselves to
present-day concerns.

