b0001y ctpr
(audio notes transcription needs fixing)
All life is contains metals. Sodium, potassium, magnesium calcium. And so on these things are metals on the periodic table of contents. And they allow the exchange of these metals allows organisms to conduct electricity. Right. You can't do that. We can't like try doing that without metals as a different kind of challenge.

Right? And so we should, we ought to think of about the fact that organisms conduct metals a sorry that organisms use metal to conduct electricity to run, something that is like a neural network process. Right some sort of neural networking like computation, but we ought to think about this in a similar way that we think about how should I say this like mitochondria.

So mitochondria are bacteria that are not a human bacteria. I mean, it's it's a human symbiote but it's not, it's not, it's DNA is bacteria, it's not human right? But it's symbiotic with the human being. There's there's a mitochondria and every every cell the human body, it helps us to produce more energy than we could otherwise.

So, there's a beneficial relationship between this object might of chondria and the other cells and the cells of the human body in that mitochondria is inside the cells of the human body. But there's also a beneficial relationship between these neural networks which are enabled by electricity, which are enabled by the fact that South I'll carry this metal and it moved this metal around and this allows us computation to happen, right?

So as the energy of this computation to to happen or as part of the process and there's a beneficial relationship between these neural networks and cells or between the neuron the neural networks and organisms. And so, you know, evolution I has as gone down the path of saying yes we want more metals, more neural networks made out of neurons and glial cells, more brains, more hearts, more organs, more bodies, more skin, more eyes, and more years.

Etc. This is a path that evolution walked and it brought us to us here. But the idea is that we have neural organisms evolved neural networks. The state in the same way that organization human or human human beings evolve to relationship with mitochondria. This perhaps accidental start of organisms integrating metals and then those metals conducting a signals or being part of the process of, of the functioning of human brain.

These these are this is like think of it as a neural network as a is having a symbiotic relationship with the human being are with the animal. And so humans have really, really fancy, you know, networks and glial cell networks, compared to say mice. So, and in some cases, evolution led animals to become mice and some in some cases, evolution lead to human beings that human neurons and glial cells are fancy compared to what other compared to what mice have.

And and proceed as over the ARs of evolution. There was a progression that led to