b0004y ctpr
(audio notes transcription needs fixing)
00:00
So add this to my to my book. And I know how. Now networks work, artificial neural networks and how real 3D human neural. Networks work. And I know the difference is between the two. Human beings are essentially organic robots.
00:31
The.
00:39
The activity of retrieving the memory, strengthens it. And so in this in the strength and it in the retrieval of a memory new proteins since this happens, not just in the creation of a memory and most of you will remember because the process of retrieving, the memory, strengthens the memory, all of the memory consists of all of the of the Americans as Temple spatial sequence that the entire oscillation is learned and then any of the neurons in that oscillation can play back.
01:33
Because they are.
01:39
Any of the narrows in the oscillation that have learned that pattern can be played back that pattern. But there's going to be think because the part because the pattern was learned by all of them, but it's scaled, it started scaling up from the point of that oscillation before. Eventually interfacing with the rest of the last nations of the brain, but in, and more scaled up away.
02:14
So that we would so that you have the recognition of patterns of different scales at the point, that a pattern occurs. It's at the level of a single neuron firing and then as it scales to the local circuit it's scales. Again, it's basically repeated again and the cortical column and then repeat it again on a larger scale and then repeat it again, you know, by the, by the whole brain, but it's sort of like because it's it's it's it's a sick.
02:57
It's a signal that's represented by a combination of of frequent frequency and time-based codes. Figures in time-based codes that had that create phase changes in different to the to the existing oscillation pattern. And the phase changes changed the phase pattern. So every so So every time I signal is received, it changes, what was there?
03:38
What was was I guess basically standing that the previous it changes the previous pattern that was it was repeating and then here again and that's how the brain is combining. What was previously learned with what's with? What's new is because the brain is essentially repeating and oscillation pattern. That was that was the tape of the previous learnings, right?
04:07
And then those collide with this sensory, impulse the new learnings and those changes the changes to the whole learning to the old oscillations are how the system absorbs reality in a collective way that is, is tracked at from both the individual scale to the collective scale and their recognition that the micro patterns become macro patterns becoming multi-scale patterns.
04:38
The recognition that parents have multiple scales, like, it's like, I don't know. I've I think of the Alice in Wonderland when she tries the shrooms and she like, has a servant spatial disassociation and I've I felt on occasion sort of like, I can't figure out what's bigger is my head bigger or like, you know, how you ever had like, you feel like, if you're really huge inside your head or on, or maybe you're really small inside your head, like you play with play with size and dimension and imagine that, you know, all of a sudden like the entire universes like filled with your head.
05:19
I had a self-rising big right, you know, or play with the idea that it's it's your head is really tall and tiny and the whole universe. Like you can feel whoever's we had effect this little tiny dot it's like so freaking tiny that I think you like this entire solar system is super tiny and so you're like this ultra tiny thing and because you're at the scalable cosmos and you're imagining the whole visible cosmos down.
05:49
It's like so freaking time and there's so much like around it. Right? I finish. It's like a year plus. I'm just playing this scale, like take that area and shrink that down.
06:05
And then take that area, make sure that so take the area, that's the size of the whole university, you can imagine and shrink it down to the size of a model here, again.
06:48
So imagine that the neuron is a megaphone with a microphone microphone for listening. So you have all this the listening to whole bunch of different things, but then condensing everything that it's listening to into the into the frequency and duration of the action potential. But then magnifying out like a speaker.
07:18
The. Frequency and amplitude to all of its connections. So it's connections are listening to a frequency and amplitude of the pattern that is that that connection represents so that connection represents a network of it represents. Like it's like that pattern. It represents features, right? So it can fire with different features, right?
08:06
But it's but it's only going to but it's not going to contain the whole feature. Like basically, the feature is contained in a network and the network is triggered when a certain sequence is that happens, right? So it's this like the memory is stored. Hit the micro scale at the individual neuron, right.
08:30
But it's only deduce by the time of graphic reconstruction of the signal path, triggered by the memory in that neuron. So with that neuron is going to trigger, right? It's going to thenarize going to trigger. It's going to magnify a signal to a whole group of neurons, right? And then the collective action of that group of neurons is going to represent the magnified signal of the single neuron with its connections, right?
09:02
So it's retrieving a memory from a neuron, that stores memory as it's own connections. And then, the, the memory is restored when all of those connections are bumped by the accident terminal connection to the neuron that fired. So, all of the other timing is bumped in a way that a lot that a basically, you boast the restoration of the memory that is stored as the connections, as the learned connections, right?
09:33
So that's how our number is is restored into consciousness. But then that bomb keeps on magnifying like like another part of the brain will read that bone like those neurons that or the ones that fired, right? So there's this. So the ones that fired from that seat from that learning systems, right?
09:53
So there's another stage of a learned pattern that gets played after that, right? And so, there are subsequent problems and so it's like, yeah. So there's a sequence that gets played out at a higher level, which is multiple, which is, which is a sequence of multiple different oscillatory that works that are firing, and face sequence, right?
10:16
So one pattern appears in this question neurons. And this the next part of that pattern appears in another brushing, your eyes and the cycle through the brain, where basically you have neurons that are that are firing and large groups. Sorry that are receiving bumps in large groups. And that is triggering certain other neurons to fire.
10:44
And those are creating and the sequence, the sequence that fires that's created is is the sort of write at this. There's a firing statements that sort of represented in the network by all things that are bumped or sensed physically like the physical or sensation of of, what of the sequence set is fired.
11:21
It's felt by all the neurons that are connected to it, right? And that's how the brain sees its own patterns Because you have a sequence of networks that are firing that are representing larger patterns as the learned connections that are bumping. That the bumping the network in a way that is detectable because those neurons that were bumped are going to offsite anyway.
11:51
But now they're going to oscillate to a different to out of out of frequency, like that group is going to oscillate and a new frequency. And the new frequency is defined by the patterns that bumped it. And so, the patterns that are existed in microscale are magnified to the macroscale and that that