b0015y ctpr
(audio notes transcription needs fixing)
function (audio)
00:00
Why are we keeping all memories? Well, it's like why it's it's it's it's your brain learned to create really long through evolution, really long strings of memories going back your entire life, because of the survival advantage of it, like you're able to make better predictions by incorporating old information with new information.
00:30
The more information you have with your predictions, the better your life, the more, your genes can replicate it So we need this. Pretty me spell to keep all lovers and well, you can totally decide and you can like the side like and you will you will decide like that's things like when you, you think about it enough, then your mind will expand your awareness around it and you'll realize there's some stuff you can like go up because you don't need anymore or some stuff.
01:00
You don't care about anymore. Let's grab something. I remember remember it's like an images, right? Yeah. So everything else happening the same image I can reply again. Again my friend, there's like PTSD likely take a sampling, what everything? But yeah, the same image happening over and over again. You see memory you don't like this memory or something.
01:23
Mainly call bring work sim card. No charge. I felt your saying. Yeah. Now it's like you're memories are stored in the connections of your brand. So when you're neurons fires together, they form connections and those connections represent the patterns that have been learned. Previously, they represent the, they represent, you know, sequences of patterns, and neurons detect sequences their coincidence detectors.
02:11
So it's like, like a coincidence. It's like, okay, if you see something and hear something like, if you see lightning and you're lightning and they always happen in close proximity, right? Like sometimes, like, if it's really close press area, that means the storm is, right? Right above you, we see lightning and thunder at the same time, but if you see lightning because like, totals faster than sound, and then a little while later, you hear thunder into the storm and as often some directions, it's not right above you.
02:38
It's somewhere else, and the greater the distance. The further away, the center of the storm is from you. And that's sort of like I figured the point was
02:58
Remind me of food about my words. Yeah, memories. Okay. So the very key thing called this images, right? Okay. So, it's like,
03:18
Because dreaming state, when we dream, we can see if you have. If something is if there's multiple correlations like, if they're like, like you bring wants to
03:37
Was very phrases.
03:44
Brand wants to maintain the equilibrium. It's because it's a physics-based system and it has to intake us. It's a dissipative system has to intake like like a vortex has to intake new energy, like food and export, increasing chaos to the surrounding environment, increasing energy, because entropy has to always increase according to the second law of thermodynamics.
04:11
So your body always has to maintain its equilibrium or try to maintain life but it's happening at every cell's level and whole body is made up of cells, right? And the same thing with organs, it's all it's about physics-based systems. Maintaining an equilibrium and ultimately that's the driver of behavior.
04:35
But then on top of that there is like that is that's a basic driver of
04:48
Like, where it's like why you need to eat every day and why people need to go to the restaurant every day? If these people away don't let evolve ever do evolution that people don't need for to get that energy. They will sense. Different values source.
05:19
Do I think people can sense a different energy source? Will just stop eating for. They still need this whole elements.
05:36
The yeah. So okay. So like imagine like a hurricane, is it just paid the system, right? If a hurt, if you cut off all the heat to a hurricane, it will die because it is cycling. Like it's existence is as a cyclone of reality. So, it's like a human being is in a sense of vortex and reality, like a hurricane.
05:58
So we are reality. Spiraling essentially on some level. That is a valid way to see it as a valid viewpoint. It's not the only valid viewpoint. This is also real, but that's another valid perspective on it, right? And yes. So it's like, yeah, we are in essence like this fractal.
06:21
Functional funnel. Isomorphic, I mean that's you know, when I say fractal and I say, isomorphic, those are all. What those are which like us like a self-repeating pattern, right. But it's like you have a, you have an isomer for function and you have like an isomorphism of functions. What I mean is like if you have, you say, okay, you're gonna describe how something changed over time, like, this is gonna go from here to here.
06:54
Okay? And so this is point a, this point b, and how it goes from here to here, is a function, in this case, some movement, right, that movement is taking something from here and putting it over there, but it is something that transitions from this state to that state, right?
07:10
And so that is, that's, that's a function. That means that something changed. If suddenly you played music that, that is your, that's the playing music function. That means that somehow something happened, where there was no music. And now there was music and what happened to between, was the function, someone turned on the music, right?
07:32
And that's how programming it's like, programming is basically functions. Like okay, this button is now going to do this. So we write that and the language that the computer understands and yeah,
07:52
Did that answer your question? Okay, I should get my shoes on. You might put them on right here. It's okay.
08:09
Thank.
08:21
And maybe you'll think for another question too, who knows?
09:27
Here.
09:44
Think maybe use the restroom for now.
10:03
Champ. I'm fine later. Yeah.