b0012y ctpr
personality (audio)
00:00
Think I'm imagining my mind as if volumetric space volume actually video, right? Like over here. This is a point cloud in my vision and it has audio cues and it has like I can feel it. There's asthma. It has mechanical mechanical sensitive predictions for the properties, and the orientation of visual representation.
00:29
Orientation sounds that might come from the orientation velocity of that object, and its properties. And I have like a but then I have like, the whole like I imagine is like the representation of the room that I'm in which is it's the room is like eight by eight and a half feet.
00:54
And so it's a small room, right? Like a bedroom, a small, a bit. A small bedroom might be 10 by 10 or 10 by 12. That's a small bedroom or a closet percent for some people like they have classes bigger than that, right? So this is a small, small room, and I am just sort of like, imagining the four walls is being like a volumetric space that's sort of taking place inside my head.
01:27
Like somehow, this volumetric space is calculated by different oscillating, , patterns in my head somehow and I'm a match, so I got imagining. 

01:58
But it's like what I imagine? Is that my framework for that frame is my personality. Attributes is a like a physical structure. That's sort of overlaid and visibly. On top of the world that I see, so that I could be reacting to the front path of that personality architecture, or the backup of it, or the different like curve or shape of it.
02:25
Like, it could be curved, it could be corrupt, it could be carved, right? I can imagine this carvatar, the changes, my personality, a little, right, and liking like curve, it or uncourage it curving or, and uncover it in uncovered, and flatten it out and I can flatten out. Like I'm personally and it's interesting because it's like what I'm saying is like, I am sensing that there is these spatial patterns inside of these sequences, temporal sequences that are invisibly overlayed on top of my visual perception of reality.
03:09
And I auditory and my sounds like here and there's so I would say say it's like it is like experiencing reality is like experiencing multiple senses layered on top of the trailer and all the senses, sort of corresponding material, a space, that's 3 plus 1D, right? 3, dimensions of space and one dimension of time to the sort of describe what's happening.
03:40
And But yeah.