b0011y ctpr
Graph Signal Processing
00:00
Because the nature of signal processing and a 3D neural network is to do, the brain is contains both spatial and temporal characteristics. The nature of century perception of every kind of sensory perception is.
00:19
It's it's like a 3D plus 1D a 3D plus 1D graph or three blue, but is it three? Three blue one. One green graph that symbolizes all sensor representations. Because there is a, I mean, this concludes the like, the graph that the graph nature, the 3D graphing of signal processing that the that's happening in which each each part of a network.
00:56
Where is, you know, like, such as a cortical column, for example, is receiving signals from above and below to its left, and right? And and from the front and the back like there is there's a there's this sort of six axis or 3d signal processing happening in terms of like you need kind of like three dimensions of time of space and one dimension of time to sort of calculate where all the traffic's coming from and going to there is to, to, to agree extent, you know, there is, there is direction right to neurons collect?
01:43
No, it's collecting information from some direction and then outputting Some sort of signal to other directions but you know I look at cognitive neuroscience and their description of neurons is receiving and it's sort of receiving and and considering and then transmitting a signal is a sort of like mistaken distinction.
02:16
That's not it's not making a distinction between neurons that are or I guess drivers notice that modulators signal modulating and I think the key is that the key this, that, you know, when you look at neurons in the hand that you that when you need to know the travel from long distances, then you're gonna have like, you know, basically the sensor sensory collection of signals and you're gonna have, you're gonna have those kinds of signals will be with him to be more drivers or basically like they're passing the signal, which is kind of like, what, what you think is happening in.
03:07
If you read just introduction, it's like neurons are passing there. Just passing the signal, from your fingers, from your eyes to your brain. But the thing is, like, at some point the, the partial recognite, the partial and distributed recognition or cognition. If you have a distributed recognition and cognition.
03:36
That's so, for example, if the if you have a network that is like collectively recognizing something through, as a as it's going to dissipate through the entire oscillatory, network of green. But in order to, in order for that network to collectively, recognize and each part, each part of the network.
04:03
When it passes through, has to, not only receive and transmit a signal, but has to receive and modulate a signal, otherwise, it it's like, it would be as if it didn't contribute. As if it's is, if it wasn't contributing to the perception, right? It's got a pass along, it's perception of the signal.
04:26
That's the key. Otherwise, what's the point of it being there? It's not adding anything to the calculation. If it doesn't modulate the signal and pass on it, it's it's perception to other neurons. So it has, so the very act of having a group of neurons that are going to calculate the meaning of a signal.
04:50
Collectively means that as one neuron receives it and remembers. I says, oh, this is a pattern. I remember those pattern, right? Don't it must therefore pass on a modulated version of the signal that contains the reflection of its knowledge that the other neurons can then pick up in the crunch.
05:15
Because if it doesn't do that, it may its in minus will be replaced with within our and that's not passing along the signal.
