b0044y ctpr
(audio note: transcription needs to be fixed)
3d signal processing (audio)
00:00
I just say that I feel more transparent in terms of understanding, how my well my head is doing in terms of the what the my favorite patterns are doing in terms of creating this service stable and hospitality signal that just waits for incoming data to update some parts of it.
00:24
So like it's it's just made like this reality. Just is very stable, like low frequency based solar patterns pattern. So the database changes the wave and that is the that's the that's what my rendering of reality is made out of. But it's very like it. Like you can send the signals of many different scales and many different kinds of signals, many different textures and it can process it all.
01:07
Like it has like the neurons have like this ability since all kinds of texture is and he and audio and visual egg and process, they can processly be. Where is the quality? The energy have of the
01:41
It's like they can process. The phase changes in reality in the lives, right? It's like,
01:59
You have light that has certain kinds of frequency and like, has certain kinds of like spectrum, like amplitude, right? The frequency an amplitude, right? You have light up different frequency and differential.
02:18
Right? I mean, in terms of like, you know, how bright is it? Bright, is it this one example? It could be there's a lot of lighter, very little light. So, but there's range and the brightness and that's what I'm so frequency means, like the you could have like to be flashing very fast or it, could be very slow, right in.
02:42
And in the amplitude it could be like okay was it could be slow but it could be like very warm are so you know like I'm just trying to say there's a lot of different character ways to to the trailer and that there's like this, this basically, this whole and it sounds obvious, obviously, say that loud, but it's, it kind of something.
03:09
They don't really think about. Is the fact that if you can, if you can see it in your mind then your brain can can render that whatever you can see in your mind or with your eyes or whatever, you can perceive with any of your senses, maybe you don't have eyes on or no.
03:32
But whatever you can.
03:40
Seeing your minds on, you know if you can imagine a place, right? We can imagine. If you can anything that you're seeing in mind, your mind has to be cute though of rendering that graphically because you're perceiving it graphically. If you're perceiving a visual representation or the graphics of a place or the or the space of a place you're visualizing the space or if you just can sense the wall or feel the or no.
04:23
If you could just kind of know the size of the place, even if you close your eyes, you just kind of know the size of the place that you're in. Right? If you click, keep your eyes closed, I'm just imagine, suddenly this basically keep your eyes closed. It imagine something like the spaces, you're in, like just became very big.
04:41
Much bigger. Now you're like in a place that's like bigger than way bigger, you know. Then the place you're at right now and oh, this is NASA just keeps growing it's a place to grow and and then but you're back to normal, go back to reality, you know, open your eyes but it's just, it's just this idea that we
05:17
We have this sense of space. And so going to like the fractal, hierarchical the fact of hierarchy practical functional isomorphism. It is this thing that we see with you know with EG and MEG and MRI that there's seems like you know the signals that one scale are repeating at another scale.
05:46
Like there is a, there's a similarity where I have some more physical where you see like, you know, a system going through, several transfer, several transformation states and as part of a, you know, routine oscillation or it's just some sort of physical pattern happens and you say, oh wait a second.
06:13
Now that's this. You don't want one thing that's interesting, is if the neurons the dendrite is tree light, it's branch like, you know, your hand is actually kind of branch like, right? See your hand is kind of like a dent, right? You know why? It's it's not not not actually, but like it's not functionally, it's definitely your hand is is, but think about it for a second.
06:37
You'll see see the imagine like that, you know, with a neuron that it's branches are actually like, it's hand, right? It's alien hand to art to us is just branches but the it would have it. What if that's like it's hand. It's his body. Okay? And I say this because I was reading in John Lee's book that the that the white blood cell can can can sprout arms and and pull and push and fraud and move force its way through these the cellular structure.
07:21
It's like a little man. It's like a little bear. They like it cross through the white bloods of cross through this forest of this. You to get to the destination where he does his job. And in, meanwhile, he's in New York. He's coordinating with with headquarters. Who are given him like steps along the way to help guide him.
07:49
You know, we're okay. Where do I go next? It's like, can you imagine just like this like mess of a forest to the flesh that is like never ending. You can never get outside of it, okay? And but it's just like you can't, there's no road signs. Even if even if you have a road sign and be fucking confusing, like, what is this?
08:09
Roadside mean? What I don't this is road taking me and I need to go through this wall of life. Is that wall flash, right? It's very confusing. But you know, but the but it's it's kind of like I think of the price of the feedback system and project of feedback system is where you can stick out your hand and you can think about something you want to grab with your hand.
08:33
And you can move your hand closer to grabbing that thing, eventually, they're grabbing that thing, but a long. But if you divide that your hand move in time into like, if you imagine your film, do your hand move at some normal normal speed and reaching it and picking up something that you would normally pick up romantic someone else doing if you want.
09:02
But just just, you know, think about what happens in your mind at each interval of time. Like imagine that that takes a second, you think. Okay, I'm gonna pick this. Okay. So we take that one second, not divided into like and picoseconds or something. Like I'm just saying I was using likely, imagine it's like a movie, right?
09:28
And every at any, every end to all the time, you pick the interval time could be milliseconds, okay? Then that's like, because like, you know, I think, you know now, yes, neurofiring. You can think people think of it as something that's happening on the scale of an all seconds.
09:52
Maybe three. Milliseconds for a synapse to detect that it's been trigger, right? Because it's really, it's like a synapse has a long threshold.
10:15
That makes neurons so fucking complex.
10:43
I think what it represents.
10:50
Think what it represents is? I learned pattern? So here's what I'm saying. Okay, so with the thing, with the granule cells, you had the situation where the, you had a situation where the grandiose cells were, okay? So they have this word where they're they're converging signals from from their perspective, the granule cells are converging signals from from the entering of cortex but from entering our cortex there.
11:32
Diverging segments to the grain ourselves period, they're diverging the diverging but signals because there's like a million granule cells, or something like that. And and then there's like mate to something on the order like 50,000. Entering on cortex. So it's like this massive fanning out right? You going from a small amount of cells to compared to three larger amount of cells.
12:09
And so you'd have to standing out or desperate or divergence. Convergence divergence is it is. All right? So you have this divergence, our activity, it's fanning out. So in immaculate a macroscopic way, these signals are the virgin but it's curious that the from the from the granule cells perspective, it is converging cells, but all of the nerve, all of the neurons in the brain are converging signals and diverging signals the same time that that's the sort of like the part.
12:51
The part that I think isn't really that may not be really. Thought about really well thought about is is, is this. So if you have these, the signals and diverging, and then, but they're also connecting like there's going to be like. And you're going to have like many different, you have like a huge, so a huge number of freedom numbers gosh but it's like a huge numbers.
13:23
This is an important number to. I have it written down somewhere. I posted this one but it's like if you have
13:37
This was from the book by Versace and who is saying, but this is great, this was great, this is a great moment, right? And, and it was a great thing to present to use here is wow, his book is so good.
15:44
Yeah, that makes sense. Okay, so here's the thing. So, the way to structure the book is I have a lot of my own original material right? But what I'm going to is sort of like writing ideas, while I think I have someone else's material, right? So if I use someone this episode, if I think of the book is like a series of articles.
16:13
Right. And I like the way I'm thinking about this, it's like the outlineism is looking really good looks really good. There's more stuff that I'm adding to it. It's growing. But so what I'm thinking about is because the sort of like the comprehension of the whole of the whole thing is a little bit.
16:48
Little bit hard to get at. All right. So I'm like, okay, so like so It's I think that I don't it's it's like I think that I want to go over each piece of evidence one more time. Like now I have an outline, but but this is a way of accomplishing towards with one stone, which is that.
17:13
I what I want to do is sort of like explore. I want to list of all the exhibits and then I want to sort of like, explore the exhibits one at a time and just add that to the book. And so the book is just like, about these exhibits, right?
17:31
This is like, if this is like the, there's like a Disneyland worth of stuff here. All right, so okay. So these are exhibits, right? There's tons of stuff to talk about. So, so yeah, I can do that.
17:51
I think we should extend. Hodgkin and Huxley and that's all the time with the solids and wave model.
18:10
And circle back to the original Hebbian. India. Okay, so let's make a timeline. And so we've got have
18:32
That's a creator of the EEG.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio