b0056y ctpr
Sequences Pattern Piano

00:00
So different different chambers. It's different piano sequences. That's not right. It's um different cameras, different piano, sequences, no, no, no different. Chambers different different cameras and your piano sequences. I was making an argument about different chambers different piano, sequences, okay? So different, oscillators different oscillators would have different would represent a different features that are being considered.

00:43
If you're considering two different patterns, right? Like, you're considering okay like, okay. So I'm innocent, aren't you at street now? There's a person over here, and over somewhere here, in a push over here. One person over here, and you're considering, okay. Now, this person's trajectory, if I go towards this person, I might actually walk close to this person.

01:02
Do I want to risk walking close to this person? Don't want to allow them to be near me and so you, like, you think, or do I want to, like, cut a path that so that either, like, you know, is behind them. So that I arrive at the store to different time than they arrive at it or do I want to, you know, just allow myself to be on the path that I'm on and arrive, you know, close to the same time that they're arriving.

01:29
I mean, doesn't even matter to me. Would I, rather be in front? Would I? Rather just get to the surf faster and not worry about this, right? Like there's all these like think possible thoughts that someone can have and then that they sort of like think oh these are all the possible.

01:47
These are all the different possible things that I could do and like but what is the what is the thing that fills the best to me? What's the best feeling? How is the best way to?

02:06
To get through the next moment. Some people, some people are not sort of operating in this level of conscious awareness and they're not even. Like when they go through life, they don't have a, I don't have a description of the of the, the sequences that they encounter and the subroutines, the thing can sort of mystery, there is a sort of mystery to the world.

02:40
I think that you assume that you're use, I think when you grow up, you assume that the people around you understood what the world was about. But they don't like regular people. Don't really understand what the world is about. And really like, yeah, don't like, don't be letting it all be like, oh yeah, it's this religion or that religion and that's annoying.

03:06
So don't be a know-it-all right? And know it alls are annoying and be like, yeah, I will, you know, now you're just saying, like, it's like a comparison thing. Like, it's like a

03:29
Jasmine first and thing.

03:37
Why am I talking about this? But oh yeah, so the idea is that, you know, to compare with information. So the thing is like, okay, let's say if you have a sequence and this sequence and certain as a certain like let's say the sequence could be associated with or something that your brain is tracking, right?

04:06
So it could be an oscillatory sequence, that represents some pattern that your brain is tracking. Yeah. This this pattern will be. Well, we'll have a pathway that that basically gets that circulate into into brain if it's a relevant pattern.

04:36
Okay, I'm just gonna leave this going is fine. I know how to fast forward button marks.

04:53
Okay, let's get back into our more concrete example. All right. So, what I'm saying is that the isolation

05:22
The the transmit, their excess energy to other oscillations, right? It's like there's this, there's this global network where or every array is connected is connected to it every other race in some way. Like it's like the pattern of connections actually changes constantly. I synopsis grow and between very active.

06:01
Groups of neurons.

06:10
And this interesting to think that some memories don't always like, they don't always like have the same firing pattern. So sometimes the firing pattern will be one neural circuit with a bunch of neurons in it. Sometimes it'll be another sometimes a different, you know, different set of neurons will be involved.

06:41
All right? Maybe maybe the two sets share like something in common, like, one character in column and call it and in common, but they are.