b0055y ctpr
Oscillators (audio) 
00:00

00:52
And and and how and the movement of a highlight of electricity, how it would I remember he we you know kids have to be taught that if they if they grab on to something that his electric with both hands, there's going to be like a circuit that forms that that causes them to continue to grip to, to close their grip, around, whatever their grasping.
01:26
So in theory, it's difficult to let go. If you're, if you're confident and so they like, okay, well, you can try the circuit out but try it with the back of your hand. So you're not going to handle and try to grip it and and then and then now I remember trying it.
01:45
Of course the shock is like that your hand moves away really fast, like it moves away from fire really fast like when you're taught, the stove is really hot. You get kind of close to it then you drink the hand away, right? And so I actually I don't I don't remember very well what happened when we experimented with with a shock.
02:09
I mean, that's really social long time ago. But but yeah, I just remember that we weren't supposed to put our hands around around something electric. And you weren't supposed to stick here, tongue under frozen pole because it would get stuck and we had out there. And so and so there was like this long list of like, you know, I remember talking to my dad his work and he he was, he was, he's interested in prom.
02:40
Like, you know, if we're if like most of his, most of your hand is empty space. Why is it that it doesn't go through another object. It's it's like keep your hand on a particle. Level of your hand is kind of like a cloud kinda, whereas most of the symptoms would muscle.
02:58
It is empty space. Most of the time. Why doesn't that cloud go through it? And I do kind of like like I like the the I like to think about a marching queue which is like a marching cube is something used in computer graphics and and it has it's really good for for creating instance, boxes, which is something that's done in webics.
03:30
Are about you can it, you have oxtails and you can instance voxels. And so that means you can have a ton of marching cubes and this can help simplify 3D graphics, right? So you can have a lot of detail in your 3d graphics but the thing is that with a margin cube, you're in a situation where there is a from the fundamental limit to the like it's not it's not getting you exact curves, right?
04:15
That you might want to in a real geometric representation, but it's interesting to think about emergency because it's like any of the planes that make up a margin, cube can be activated, which means that it, there's a there's a there's there are several different ways that it can appear to to the human eye based upon which parts of it are activated.
04:45
And the crazy sort of like a very generic sort of like low-cost shape for computer graphics, but I think it's interesting to think of the margin Cuban in terms of physics because there are some strings limitations, like, you know about particles. They can't take up the same space, right?
05:09
But they do merge, you know, in a sense, like, I think that if you have two electrons that are have the same phase that they can merge, but they merge. And in a way that they begin to oscillate each other in time because of the same phase and if you're into my same ideas, like okay, so, if you have a neutron and a positron, and electrons together, they can't merge because they have different phases.
05:40
It's kind of like these are they're different phases, different phase patterns, different phase speeds. It's really the different phase velocities, right? That's the difference between I would say this, that's why a neutron and a positron. And and I try and do not merge. It's because they have different a different frequency patterns and and they have different amplitudes.
06:15
So, I would say that because light has a larger volume than an electron that it, it's, I mean, I'm just saying, like, I'm speculating that that light could be could have a higher amplitude and in higher amplitude would be associated with greater area.
06:42
Yeah, it's weird.
06:47
So the idea is that the electron has a smaller area and it's potentially as fast as light.
07:06
It's it's weird because it should be faster than light in a sense like the phase of like if we have really if it really is there's like what I'm imagining is that there's
07:25
Is that there's a relationship between phase and amplitude such that if a particles phase increases,
07:38
It's frequency increases, then it's going to be smaller and faster, but it's going to be smaller and faster and
07:55
10, it's potentially going to be smaller and faster, right? So I would think that. Yeah, I don't know. It's it's that heart is not completely decided for me, but
08:17
The reason why light might be faster in some instances would be as if you had.
08:36
It's it's it's okay. So me. So, maybe what I'm thinking is that is that the speed of light is like,
09:03
The speed of light is is is like hmm.
09:14
Their constant because it is a constant and speed of light is across the speed. The ideal speed of light is across the speed, right? Because light can be bent and like can be slowed down. So, the ideal speed of light and it's in. So,
09:39
What I'm, where am I? So, what I've argued previously is that space.
09:50
Space. Marches forward in time. Because the because particles particles are moving and direction of expanding time. Particles are moving in the direction of spending time and because expanding time is creating more adjacent opportunities for movement and particles. The particle movement is fundamentally chaotic so far, particle movement is fundamentally chaotic.
10:26
Then there's an equal chance. It's gonna go to every possible direction. But in the direction of space, that's excited because it's moving faster and moving through time because it's like layered with multiple particles, like instant condensate, there are basically more chances for the particle to move in the direction of hot space or oscillating space or faster space or expanding time.
10:54
And so the expansion of time is caused by my particle masses, right. And that it's that expansion time. You should think of it as time is like, it's, it's like, it's, it's fourth dimensional, but in this, right? But it's, but it could be fifth. Six, seventh, eighth, dimensional. I mean, the idea is that it's just advancing forward in time and I mean, like,
11:40
It's what I'm saying. It's like expanding time is like expanding in space, and then now there's additional ways for particles to tumble causes. It's gonna cause particle movement right now. You can say that expanding time is movement, all right? And but you could also see it as a configuration, right?
12:13
So it's it's a movement from the expanding time as a movement from the perspective.
12:32
Spending time.
12:39
So movement.
12:54
It's like okay, let's say imagine it has space has three dimensions, right? And put the three dimensions are only accomplished because the three dimensional space-time. Oh shit. Okay. So imagine that the the atoms are polygons and the and the galaxies of our products, but then there's lines between them.
13:33
So like, imagine that each oscillator is like a 3d configuration of space time. It's creating 3d space time. But, but, but well in actuality it's creating intervals of three days based on it. So, the interval of state of through these baseline increases with mass or decreases with frequency.
14:10
Or as I say increases with increasing mass or decreases with, and increasing frequency,
14:27
So it's kind of like so I guess anima in a manner speaking it's kind of like a not in space or a traffic jam in space, where a whole bunch of particles collided to create traffic jams that resulted in atoms, right? So, it's like random particle collisions cause atoms, and atoms become molecules.
14:56
And basically, these particle collisions are oscillations merging with oscillations and these are oscillations in space time. And as the oscillations merge, they effectively combine or they act as one, which would means that anything and encounters that that body of oscillators ripples through the entire body of oscillators. So they act as a combined sensor and information configuration sensor, but also a transmitter and then transmission between one oscillator and another causes space to bend between them but also causes lines to form between them.
15:38
These lines are particle lines but they can taken out. They can their particle lines in the in the direction of each of the points and the points are made out of oscillators. And but then all the points that are not in between two of the oscillators, a two of the great oscillators are going to be doing opposite thing.
16:17
Where there's an increase in in traffic. That is not moving towards the oscillators and this is like in the double stud experiment. How there are lots of bands of really brightly lit where partners like, lots of bands were particles landed because the configuration space was such that they had a probability of landing closer to to certain points.
16:57
That reflect, I think those point I think those points like
17:07
They kind of represent like vert like vertical lines between oscillators, right? And inside, you're going to have like strobed. You're going to have stroke lines, basically that that emerge from each OS later like a commercial planet. So the planet so a planet like Earth is going to have stroke lines that are vertical lines where it's pulling together vertical particle traffic, but counterbalance, but that is going to create a counterbalance of push with horizontal particle traffic that's in between these vertical lines.
17:52
And so in between these vertical lines, all the energies going to be going to the lines in a way from these dark spots and so you're going to you're going to see basically in a situation where there's a where there is a sufficiently stronger tractor such as a, an oscillating planet.
18:12
You're going to see, basically like particle liens that are oriented towards the the large spherical large denser, attractor, a particle is and but that can. But conversely that's like but that's the equivalent of like as you have like in light is sending energy forward, it's like okay, so think of the elevator example.
18:40
So like having gravity in earth having like having gravity on earth is like being an elevator shooting straight up at a certain velocity, right?
18:52
And so the elevators like this force is shooting up beneath. You like some particles are being pushed on your underneath your feet doing pushed upwards, right? And I'm in. And so I'm basically saying that that the force of the oscillations is creating the gravitational force. That feels like an elevator or particles being pulled down as if they're being pushed force.
19:25
So in the double set experiment, you're actually firing photons. You're firing photons. And so there's force, where coming from the photon, emitter and that force, it's coming from the photonometer. That's fine. Firing the, the light in a certain direction is going to be equivalent to like an oscillating and oscillating mask the same way that an elevator is going to be equivalent to to gravity on earth.
19:55
And so that is going that the the double set experiment itself is interfering with the experiment because as it fires like photons it is basically is basically creating gravitational field that is warping space time and such a way that it's creating like the same sort of vertical lines that an oscillator would create but creating them from a being, right?
20:33
And so they're fanned out and so you see like this that's basically this way of patterns are the double-sided experiment and
20:52
So it is really interesting how basically, how every oscillator every oscillator is configuration, is based on his interactions with everything else and everything in the universe is an oscillator. So let's say that we're we have to put the observer in a in the room and the double set experiment.
21:15
If an observation is going to happen, right? And that means that certain amount of activity, in the retina is going to receive the signal, it's going to receive the signal and then it's going to
21:46
It's going, it's gonna some of the oscillators are gonna fire, and they're gonna cause lots of inhibitions in the right now. So only a small volume, small parts of the right. Argon are gonna react? I don't, I mean, the whole right is gonna react, but it's gonna react, like, where you have small parts are gonna fire in each moment and they're gonna inhibit the rest of it.
22:08
So you're gonna have like basically like this person distributed a pattern happening in the retina at the at as light.
22:23
It's I'm guessing, but it's basically like, as so light is going to interact with the with light sensitive proteins, and that activity is going to generate the first action, potentials in the first race. Basically, it's this. That's, that's the, the, the raise the first array, right? The sensor, the sensors, the light sensitive proteins.
22:52
And then we have the, you know, the but the basic principle is that they have a receptive field and the receptive field is also an oscillator and so you have, okay. So, let's say that you have the force of light is creating gravitational force in your eye, as you're human, body is human body.
23:23
And in the point of your observation, when you observe something that also has an oscillatory force because it's like, it's like your whole body and brain are like, all right, combining and configuration space. And so there is a I sort of space-time warping happening between and observation which is which is a pattern that's being encoded somewhere and and and the The powerful beam of light is being deemed through the double set experiment.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio