b0060y ctpr
Vectors Representation Particles
00:00
So I'm saying that we should have like the a manever the man ever should be able to basically have that standard, right? Because, you know, John Carmack talks about how, you know, like it seems like the idea of a metaphors just have like, one at that, sort of like, is Sort of the interface sort of like controlling everything like when it was a bit, but that, but then you don't want to have like this within like But anyway, so just to get to the point.

00:42
It's like the idea is that you want to have yourself and so what we need is. So my proposal for is to create a web standard for the metaverse, which is basically like a representation of your web browser. Inside virtual reality, that stores, your stores like an interface for you to have a representation of your personal information that you can share and unfair at will with any website and you can definitely like and it comes with like the like AI generated personal information that you could share in instead with websites that have your own personal information.

01:33
Like it generates like random new AI identities on the fly. And so, the program is, sort of like, They get some of it input, some of the network, from a simple web host that it checks with, you know, okay? But even if it's cut off, like it has a model.

02:16
It has a model of I guess. It has like this encrypted model of the that yeah, that would be. So it has. So it has like a homo morphically, encrypted model of the original application, so that it can run and computations on the original application without decoding the original application, all right?

02:54
So they're code. Is it effectively the sky? Is the original colors, effectively disguise and but all that remains basically are the functions that so that's an interesting way to do it. But like, like using the principles varsity to to launch, or encode functions, create a result in basically, computer code, becoming more efficient because basically, instead of doing things in ones and zeros, like, which is the, like, that's like a tube.

03:46
It's like, a two bit interface. What we would do is store like high dimensional, vectors

04:08
Hypodelity, vector representation. So, I mean, I wonder if what I think is like a computer. That's like, baseball, but somehow baseball because it because it's not, it's not exactly what I was thinking. I was thinking like we clean on and off at there's like this ability to have like a fractional encoding, you know what I mean?

04:42
That's what I'm thinking. Like, we could have, we could have the

04:52
Think of me like see that? See the thing. That's like the idea of the squares represent representation is to find this smallest. Possible difference that accomplishes the the transformation between two to sequences. That would mean, like, if you have me like, if you have, if your eyes are rolling across the surface, and then there's like a piece of cloth on top of it.

05:47
It's like what is the shortest possible path between the transitioning between these two patterns? Alright, just in. And So, what's happening is with the computer, you're getting two patterns like, okay, here's a sequence, right? But the computer is not like learning the shortest possible paths between the two sequences, that's a higher dimensional, level of representation when you could income basically, when you can encode functions in the most sparse way, like when you refactor your code so that basically you your functions are expressed in the simplest way, possible.

06:37
So the periods computation 
 necessary which means your program is leaner and faster, right. And that was something. However, so, yeah. So that I actually is so that would be like, sparse coding like sports coding. It's like okay. How can I refacing my code? Until I the code is like so short that it that it accomplishes a punk, it offices a function, but it's like not even clear.

07:18
How she got any more? Because it's like, I mean, it's, I guess it's clear how but it's like, it's been like the representation, if clear? However, it's clear how and a way that you haven't, like, necessarily like understood yet, but once it becomes clear, how there's like a shorter easier way to represent the, the that function, then you get to a point where like even you're like you're understanding of the transformation that actually happened between two different steps.

07:53
And in a, in one example could be like between, you know, two different steps and a conversation, three different steps in a song or two different steps in a like a physics like like two different steps, like a person like literally taking two different steps. Like if you unders if you understand like the sequence of how one step became another like that is you're learning sort of like a function or you're predicting the function of certain the functions between different steps in a moving pattern.

08:33
So different steps in any moving pattern of anything in your line of sight. Anything that you see that is basically going to cause you to and basically, your brain is going to learn the sequence patterns between the, the causal bodies are the or like what it, where is the cause of a body.

09:09
Like, an, a body is a bunch of particles that are moving together like I human body or an animal body or a chair. It's it. It's an object that that has joint causation because because if you if you pushed on a chair, you moved holds from any part of the chair, you move the whole chair.

09:30
So it's a body that is causatively. Linked specially in temporarily like if affecting any part of it affects the whole thing. So therefore it's it's embodied particles. Thanks and so we are all embodied, quantum particles, right? We believe we've become a body. We're all invited, maybe, maybe it's maybe, maybe it's a little bit less confusing to say we're all embodied atoms.

10:00
All right, kind of particles over. It's it's true that we're embodied, punch particles. But it's a little bit more grounding because they we're embodied atoms or we're embodied molecules or we're embody chemicals. So we are embodied. But which specifically? Embody with the configuration of it dissipative system, which is a vortex.

10:21
I dissipated system is like a hurricane. It's psycho tornado. It's like a whirlpool. It's like a galaxy. It's like an atom. And so, and even human brain is dissipative. Even a neuron of the dissipates just because they're not has to taking energy and human being has to take an energy.

10:42
So neurons have to eat in here. They have to eat. So, we're practically neurons. And when fast, I need to take an energy, and I also need to dissipate energy to the surrounding environment in order to maintain my equilibrium. Which means you know, in a sense of lifelong cells need to get rid of their weight and human beings need to get rid of their way.

11:01
So salty to prove human beings need to prove that poop. Alright? Because human being is basically like a bunch of cells that are that are that are acting as a as a body of causes the combined body. And, and this means that, Okay, that's