b0064y ctpr
Oscillator (audio)

00:01
Yeah. So the idea is that the the prefrontal cortex is actually a sensory input area for the olfactory. It's a primary sensory cortex after all. Like so basically the primary such decorate cortex is three areas and those areas of this matter, sensor, cortex and the, the visual cortex in the audio cortex, right?

00:31
And the only thing that's left is is the, as when, when you're done counting is those, the primary reasons are input areas, is the prefrontal cortex, right? But that's not considered a primary sensory. Part of the primary sensor was that considered a sensory input area, right? Because the nose is like a sort of like is is involved around the entering a cortex itself.

01:01
Like there's a circuit diagram but actually in 2020. Yeah, there's a paper that came out and said actually goes to the different quarter so I'm arguing that the whole brain is seeing the whole brain but that different parts of the brain are seeing like basically patent every pattern that emerges in the brain ricochets across the entire brain.

01:24
And it does it. Because that when any neuron fires that represents learned memories, that are represented in the synaptic connections, but then they're played out on a pattern by the whole array takes and passes on to a subsequent array, which sees the whole pattern. And then and then processes it.

01:52
So you know the argument is that you know one race is another and that every oscillator is an array that's seeing patterns from other race. Okay. So far so good. But the difference is between the shape and the size and the position of oscillators is an and also the frequencies that are running across exiters like that has to do with like the lens that's applied to the data as well as the in addition to, you know like the sensory attorney.

02:23
So there's a sensor, turning is like means that stuff that goes to this matter since your cortex would be a much more tactile and also it's like you know tastes and

02:40
And then at some point, the there's actors, you know, part of the circuit for taste also, connects up with the sense of smell, those two connect and I think that was closer to the entering a cortex, but just, but I have to double check. But but it's interesting to think about the entering out cortex, the answer, the loop between the hippocampus and the internal cortex and the as places where the senses are integrating.

03:18
Right? The loop between the thalamus and took a reindeer entering. A cortex and hippocampus is like these circuit where the different lowers senses are integrating, like sensory inputs come in, and the integrate together with the place cells and grid cells of paper can of the, the hippocampus could also be the internal cortex and the and so I would expect to see some sort of circuit that involves the thalamus with the entered cortex of the head campus.

03:50
Like, it may be a looped together, so I need to look for that and that would be where senses would be integrated. And then high level thinking would be integrated theoretically through the there's the, the chanter there's either chambers between the who's caught the dilemma nuclei, but the delta chambers, the high chambers that are receiving traffic from the thoughtless.

04:17
So, the traffic goes from the fallenness, into the near cortex, and then, back to the thalamus. But when it's going into the thalamus because there century input sensory areas, okay? Then, as it gets to the top, that's where the level of focus changes to

04:42
The top. So, the idea is that basically

04:52
The lens of focus is based upon which oscillator is fine where the oscillator is happy. It is how what? It's connected to and you can have all the boss letters. Working together has chaos and they could be chaotic. Oscillators that could be like just aligning once in a while but being disaligned for the rest of the time like they could be alternating between cohesion, having having like firing at the same time once in a while and then going out very long time without firing together I could be just like but the appetite is that even if they're chaotically firing like eventually, they're gonna fire once at the same time eventually even if they're not gonna continue bars at the same time.

05:53
So it's like in a way they're continuing to oscillate just not necessarily together and some of them will oscillate you know, in this place. They whether like, the alternate one fires, any other like I guess, like, a beat, spent across two drums to, in the dead side. So the idea is that is that executive decisions aren't being made in the prefrontal cortex.

06:22
They're being made at in the Delta frequency across the layer. Six of the so it's like decisions. High level decisions are gonna be made made across the entire top of the brain which is the slower moving part of the grand district or in that that's part of it like this.

06:45
It's part of like, in an immense world. That's the that's where the grid cell great cells over the reference rooms. It's really reference frames interface with with the with the changing orientations that represent the place else, right? The fast sensor data. So it's like the top stays stable because it's like remembering what room you're in.

07:14
In the bottom was fast because it's just that's representing the perspective in there, Which makes sense because the alpha way of doing perspective. So, that means that the preferred cortex is not where decisions are made. The distance is remade in the sincere.
