b0075y ctpr
Consciousness Neuron Representations (audio)
00:00
Mmm, so we're not worse. So we have self-aware networks, we have.
00:15
All right, so Several networks. We have the neural physics of consciousness, the math, and physics, and the biological functions and involved in the human brains production of consciousness.
00:42
How it works. And then, we're going to talk about brain, computer interfaces, the ones that I know about the ones that I am, imagining that we can build. And and then we're going to talk about our self-aware networks or with, you know, some people. Imagine when they say the words, artificial general intelligence, we're talking about how machines can be conscious how we can produce consciousness in a computer.
01:21
We're gonna talk about how.
01:28
How we can connects our brains together with machine brands. What, you know, how we might interact with with AI? How we might bring our minds into the matrix. To meet a sentient AI in a virtual form and we can bring our. You can see there's good examples of this with sword art online and augment.
01:54
And and nerve gear. And there's this.
02:04
Augmented reality. Spinoff of I don't know, spinoff is the right word. But there's there's another series that it seems to take place in the same universe is stored art online but it's in a different different set of characters and exactly if there's any connection between the characters and either the stories besides the fact that they seem to take place in the same world, I don't know that that's been revealed yet, so I don't think it has.
02:33
But, but, that'd be cool for fans. Her friends are both. I'll get the name of it. When I put the book together, put the name in there, I definitely want to make sure that I have a page that sort of. Like, I don't just want to like, do like a one-line reference to my favorite sci-fi.
02:57
I want to actually like, describe a little bit about what was so amazing about. Like, you know, the crew who's for example, like commander data. And the holiday I want to talk about David Brinn's, the killing people because that was just like one of the coolest things that I read that.
03:18
I always just amazed by and it was so neat to meet David Baron. Also, I got to interview him and, you know, the I would like to also talk about let's see.
03:45
And I want to talk about, okay, it's possible. So yeah the neurophysics consciousness and then how we can, you know, read and write to this consciousness and how we can change thoughts, how we can create artificial representations like basically augment to reality in virtual reality by through a combination of brain imaging with a called brain stimulation.
04:15
And and there's a there's a process where you combine both it's called closed loop therapy. We combine brain imaging with stimulation so you are sort of monitoring what you're doing, step by step, and that allows for potentially a
04:38
A two-way signal transmission. So you can light the, you can basically link the brain to another brain because you're basically what you need to capture are face changes. And and and you didn't need to capture like the the face changes between between cells or you need to and sort of create like a, a model of the face scale based upon your sensor data or you could try to monitor the yeah you could try to monitor just like the that you could monitor the face changes basically by monitoring the size of the neurons with either electrical and penis tomography or open water.
05:48
Functional networks, the atrocity if you can monitor the neurons changing size because they because when they fire, they actually expand the size. And that causes, that's part of the process through which they're expelling, they're spelling like extra energy in a sense. They're disputing extra energy. It's and that's what they're sending out.
06:12
They're dissipating, the internet, their energy, along their their a branch, that sends a little bit of their energy to the other notes. And so each node is going to basically collect a sequence of Knox or is going to collect some amount of energy and then and then, but it's also.
06:51
And then at some point it reaches a threshold and it's going to pass on everything. It's that it's called that it has been collecting and it distributed way, okay. And the it matters like like basically this is the process of like oscillators that are either moving towards you know synchrony or they're or towards it towards the synchronous phase date or sort of like reverse like like the like the they can be in a chaotic state or there could be like in, you know, basically, you know, arguing that there is there's different kinds of patterns.
07:45
And that the different kinds of patterns that are happening are defining the, the fabric of consciousness that you are seeing when you look around, when you look at a fence, when you look at a sidewalk and you look at a brick wall and you look at a tree, when you look at a car, everything you see, and every direction you see it, like the material, the paint, all of those are representations.
08:19
Those are learned patterns. All of those representations are learned patterns. Everything, you perceive is a learned pattern that arrays of cells learned. And then they created a representation of that learning pattern. And then they showed that representation to another layer of cells and that other layer of cells made a representation of what they of what they as an array receives.
08:55
And and so these patterns, basically, they're different perspectives on the patterns that you encountered are going to be basically learned and played back by different areas of your cortex. You, I love Jack Lawrence work when he talks about basically, the semantic map that he has. The his lab has brought into public awareness through the the use of him, or I machines and correlating, basically MRI data to data that that was shown to a participant on video.
09:45
So the participant would watch a video that would and we several images would be played in the course of the video and there their the signals in their blood would be recorded by the computer. So today basically created the spatial map of blood flow changes in the brain and in the blood flow.
10:12
So every time a neuron fires, it's expelling energy it's using up oxygen and and to uses of oxygen to read sort of recatalize ATP, which is energy molecule of cells, and it uses that that energy and now it needs new energy and needs new oxygen. So, so the blood will will bring like de ribos and and I don't know if I'm getting this right.
10:41
But I actually haven't doubled, check it. But the blood will bring a new supply. The components of ATP, a dentist identicine triphosphate. And and the blood will bring oxygen in which we'll re catalyze the the ATP when it's needed. And this is so the movement of the neuron and the fact that that it is.
11:08
It's how it's it's, I don't know. It's, it's I have to look into this, exactly. But, but, but the basic principle is that blood flows where it's needed, right? Anywhere you need blood is gonna flow. So every time I sell uses energy, blood flows to it, right? So that means that every time I neuron fires, that is too much for me every time on your own fires, you're going to get into a situation where
11:52
Hang on, and
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio
 
Transcript

00:00-11:53
 