b0084y ctpr
(audio notes transcription needs fixing)
White Blood Cell Neuron Activity

00:00
So, the argument goes that there could be multiple layers of consciousness that are happening simultaneously and are not aware of each other. So that's like and some of them could be is it's like it's like the they can be multi causal. So so, for example, I can imagine that you had imagine that the you you have the the ionotropic brain, right?

00:39
And that it has self-awareness, right? Is in terms of like imagine that the with the electric field interacting with charge ions that the that would be like the neurons would represent. This is how it's actually pretty hard, even not like okay I've sort of like already thought this through but not like rethinking it, it's like okay.

01:15
So what would happen is the electric field, okay? Would be modified by the neurons which would then end it would modify the neural activity, right? So the electric field would and that. So the electrical activity would cause neural activity to trigger in your activity would result in electrical activity being triggered.

01:52
And so you could say that there's there could be like an electric brain. That is basically the brain taking in patterns from the electric field and returning patterns to the electric field, all right? So, the electric field represents a changing sequence of patterns that is correlating with neural activity and enter.

02:23
It's it's actually the electric field is in. You could say it's interacting with neural activity or allowing neural activity to interact with neural activity through the electric field. Okay. And that in a sense it could be that there's a representation of of reality in the electric field. Now, and now on the magnetic field, there could also be representation of reality in the magnetic field.

02:58
That could be decoupled from the representation of reality in the electric field. Sort of sort of like another, another perspective, another consciousness. That is basically a sequence of patterns playing out over time, that are, that are being read by other pattern makers and which are making patterns that are read by other pattern makers.

03:28
And in a virtuous cycle that forms the fabric of self-aware consciousness, okay? And so the virtuous cycle of self-aware pattern makers. Yeah, right.

03:50
And so if I reverse my so so there's a potentially a, an electric electric field brain. A magnetic field brain and mechanical wave or acoustic. Brain in terms of you know every time a neuron fires it's going to create a mechanical way that somehow or a mechanical wave that could also be an acoustic wave that affects the vibratory structure or evokes the vibratory structure.

04:35
So that's like imagine like a neuron, was like a drum and that it's drum beat could be physically sort of felt. And as a vibration by other cells, by glial cells, and in transferred vibrations, to be transferred, among Leo cells to other cells. And they would, and they would eventually like caught, they would cause like, physical knocks on each other.

05:04
Like like oscillators like oscillating pendulum, like pendulum pendulums, like pendulums and oscillation in the same room in close proximity, like eventually becoming in sync with each other's oscillation because they're giving each other a little knocks. They're dissipating. The difference between them. They're dissipating. The difference between them, so they all be good.

05:33
They'll enter into a common oscillation and it's basically like they're distributing there energy and it causes them to fire and eventually to fire at the end at the same time. It's like the elimination of free energy and and you could describe it like that. I'm not sure if that's correct, but So yeah, in the neural layers podcast, season one episode three.

06:15
I actually talked. I spoke to a brilliant scientist, andrew Watson. And we just and he helped identify the ionotropic brain and the metallic tropic range which is interesting because the metabolic real bridge is basically like the argument for how you know until there could be. And there could be yet another sort of like can't pick another chemical sort of like awareness, right?

07:04
So there's all these different possibilities. There could be some sort of like you know, how the cow, how the metallic rubbing brain works. I it's just that you know if you look at what neurons are doing like, for example like with white blood cells, you have you have cells that are guiding white blood cells to their target and one type one sort of hypothesis that I I have.

07:43
And I I'm not sure if I write it somewhere, or if it's something I came up with. But I'll have to find out what is that. Is the idea that that the this this the cells are transmitting, the location through stimulus. Like so like so like the wound, when you're in pain, you're sending lots of signals right?

08:11
Sending extra signals. When a part of you it's like a lot of signals and it hurts because you're getting a ton of like patterns from the a ton of signal patterns from the part of your body that's in pain and it becomes distracting to like to everything else that you're doing right.

08:33
It is really like become as part of your focus. So when you have, you have, you know, certain things like said it is or certain things or sort of like Depressed that the right there, the intense firing or or stimulate firing, in other areas that are not that painful areas, then you could have some sort.

09:01
You can have some sort of distraction like if you're like NVR or if you're smoking weed near the distraction you may not get the the amplification of your of the pain signals is either inhibited or it's it's diminished by contrast to others to other kinds of signals created by other kinds of stimulus.

09:28
So deep inhibited or obscured by the contract. It's like if the pain is a bright light because you give yourself a lot of other bright lights, then you're in your and that one bright light, I didn't know it is by contract no longer as brothers, relatively speaking compared to the other bright lights.

09:47
But the but then the issue is you've got to if you're gonna if you're gonna do a lot more stimulation than you need, you need to be taking in maybe some more fuel more ATP or energy so that you are. Okay. Let me pause this. So I think I was just saying that if you are addressing pain by increasing excitation and other areas of the brain, then you're going to need more ATP which means more food.

10:28
And, and inhibitory signaling, I guess. Would also cost more food or more ATP, more energy because you have to a site. So yeah, they'd be like assigning circuits to do inhibitory signaling to to, but it's interesting that the the rapid signaling, if the rapid signaling is actually driving growth through sort of, through the principles of oscillation of then, or through, or I guess through, you know, also magnetism or electromagnetism,

11:25
Kind of kind of both, right? It's like that, you know, growth through both electromagnetic, signaling and chemical, and vibrational signaling. So I would I kind of consider that maybe the metabolic tropic brain over overlays with to make with the mechana mechano receptor acoustic magnetic brain like

12:07
I mean that I said no acoustic mechanical wave frame that the, the actual, like, the way there and how it trophic rain might accomplish signaling is is coupled to the the mechanical wave or vibrational acoustic wave signaling. And then that is how it's part of how, like had signaling would be part of how a cell could guide a light blood cell to the location of an injury.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio