b0081y ctpr
audio note (needs transcription to be fixed & edited)
 Holodeck Mind
00:00
Okay, when I I start the, the chapter on artificial sentience, I want to talk both about the origins of the holiday deck and commander data from Star Trek.
00:21
The according to Wikipedia the Star Trek Holodeck was inspired by Gene, Dulga who owned the holography laboratory, in New York City and then the Star Trek creator. Gene Roddenberry met dog off in 1973. This actually ties into the discussion of using holography or the reversing refraction of light for medical imaging with which is what open wire is doing.
00:51
Combining near infrared, spectroscopy with ultrasound and holography. And, Be other. The other point is that it also ties in to, you know, how would you, how would you present a light field to your human being? There's the, you know, what is a light field right there? And the light field and the receptive field in the inceptive field concepts, the Light failed labs.
01:44
The light field is being worked on and and and California. Life feels basically like a room with with panels and each of the panel has basically a spherical pixel. So that the image that's created is different based upon your on, based upon your head position because you had based upon your eye position.
02:15
So your eye position relative to this, to the spherical tiny spherical pixels the terms, which side of the image you're going to see. So the spherical picture spirit, the straight, this spirit, you're cool pictures, divide up. What that image on display would look like from each perspective and they're rendering all the perspectives available for that image for the different eye positions that are possible in that room.
02:54
This means from above and below from to left to the right where your eye is. Where each of your eyes are is going to determine the view the viewing angle that you have on the image inside this screen of spherical pictures. And this allows them to basically stack in entire wall, from floor to ceiling and every direction with with a sort of like, if think of it as as virtual reality without the glasses because your hue, point on the 3D light fields changes is based upon your eye position in the room.
03:52
And so you can get the closest experience to what holograms might might is probably the closest possible experience to to having a holograms right in front of you, that you can also interact with through body, tracking finger tracking so and, and other effects. So as you reach out, as if you're going to touch one of the images that you're seeing with this sphere, this these spherical pixels in this, in this, in these in this room of of three images, the your, your hand position, your finger position that is also being tracked in 3D, so that you can feel like you can interact with these 3D projectors, with the illusion of these 3D projections.
04:59
It's not actually projecting out of the screen, so it's not, but it gives you the real feeling of a hologram because it's really interact with. And this is getting us sort of close to basically start tracks holodeck. But I also think it's it's it's important to bring up and into the concept of artificial sentence.
05:33
Because in essence, what I'm arguing is that the that your brain is combining all of these pattern representations together effect to create effectively like a personal holiday. That's a simulation of your perspective, in your interactions of an organism's perspective, and organisms interactions with their locations and space. And the reason I go, we'll go with so far is to say that your perception of reality is like a holiday.
06:17
Can your brain is like a holiday that is rendering computer graphics? Like like the light fields or like, virtual reality interactive computer graphics is, is because I have, I, I know that there is a long history of people being able to take psychoactive medications, like, ayahuasca and DMT LSD, mushrooms that can alter your visual perception of the world.
06:51
They can make you see patterns where there are no patterns in the case of like LSD and mushrooms. In the case of D&P Iowa, they can change your physical surrounding, at least the appearance of your physical surroundings. One experience that I had. I with DMT, which I, which was, which I smoked, I saw the, I perceived actually, I say I perceived the wall to my left into my right basically sort of disappearing and in their place, there was this sort of like infinite corridor to each of my side.
07:33
So, when I had try this, I was in a room that was about eight feet by eight feet. And the result was that I saw a I experienced the the walls of the room to my left into my right disappearing. And in addition to that, I saw Christmas elves and they just appeared on the walls out of nowhere and I had sort of like, like Christmas wallpaper and that wasn't there before I had smoked it.
08:13
And so I had this expansive feeling of space that I that I could see out of the corners of my eye, and I didn't turn my head because when I moved my head it would break the the illusion. But there were physical changes to the environment in front of me.
08:35
And it's very interesting, it's it's interesting because I would say that that Ellis the and mushrooms are sort of like the augmented reality of the drug world and that they just put patterns on top of the reality that you're in right now. But you never, you you don't really forget which reality you're in right with something like sobia divinorum or DMT both of which I've tried you are, you're it's different, okay?
09:12
So like with LSD and mushrooms there, these these drugs can be in in high doses, they can be so powerful. They change your sense of who you are, but with with the MT you remain as yourself in the and instead the world changes your holiday changes, your rendering of what is real changes.
09:39
And so people have described their DMT experiences is like visiting other planets living other lifetimes in other galaxies meeting aliens from other parts of the universe traveling, the cosmos, some people have these really awesome sounding experiences where they were trying ayahuasca, and they pull out a phone that they actually never brought with them on the trip and they pulled out this this phone, and they can now flip through all of their past memories as if all of their past memories were where somehow captured by this non-existent phone and they can sort of flip through their mind.
10:28
Like they're like, their brain was storing picture files with, with mushrooms and LSD, a person can sometimes see computer graphics that are are not there. This is a common experience for me where I will see windows and I'll be able to basically render computer graphics by choice. I can, at least that's the that's the way it feels.
10:59
It feels like I am rendering computer graphics by choosing what I want to think about. And my mind becomes a visually it if it takes on the forms of some sort of operating system that I can, I can navigate and I can select what I want to be focused on.
11:22
And so, as a someone, who's I feel like the term is for people who have explored their minds and in a sense explored the universe with psychedelic medicine, I can say that, you know, the correct term for that is a is a cycle, not but you are but a psychonaut uses drugs to sort of like explore the universe and explore their own minds and just explore reality and try and to try to understand what reality is and I think that my in my journey a psychonaut, we finally that I finally found a point where I can describe, what I think reality is to me and in a new way that I wasn't able to describe before.
12:11
And that's, that is part of this book, but I'm very I've always been dramatically inspired by those words that the beginning of every episode of Star Trek. And and the words. Go two to boldly. Go. Where no one has gone for, right. And that is the mission of people who explore who explore outer space with warp drives.
12:46
But it's also the mission of psychonauts who explore the frontiers of their of consciousness. Through the inspret, through the introspection of afforded, by psychedelic medication, In some cases, the feet, the feeling at least the feeling of scoring, the galaxy with ayahuasca DMT and meeting. Meaning aliens and and traversing the cosmos.
13:16
These are some of the things that inspire me the most, and so, when I think of basically the, the analogy is that the human brain basically is a kind of politic that read that reacts. It models reality. So version reality and then advance to it, and we know that that the that this, this is a what we're seeing as a sort of like, graphical, interpretation of reality, and not like some objective real reality, because there are there are things our facts that are missing from this reality, such as the fact that the, the eye is covered in blood vessels.
14:04
And there is a action. There's actually a blind spot in the center of every eyeball. I've really large flying spot and we the blind spot is, is something that many people don't know, even exists. And if you do know it exists, it's you don't see it on a regular basis, you have to do like this, it takes some special preparation to see it.
14:27
There's there's a trick seeing your own blind spot with a holding up a pencil eraser, about a hands distance in front of your eye and then try and then trying to trying to see it. I'm trying to see if I can do it right now.
14:47
But I'm It's about. But it really big difference between the human mind. And Star Trek is that every pixel in the human mind would be produced by the neuron. And every pixel would be would have a receptive field which would be which would consist of its connections with other pixels.
15:20
So it's connections. It's like imagine. Now we're talking about that, you know, a point cloud, right? Like every pixel in a hologram is like is like a point of like right the light field in a light field. Every light field is made up of of, of raise of light and at every point you there.
15:51
So, the reason you can see sort of see lifeheld from every angle, is that the combination of the refractive light on every simulated. Surface is projecting basically like a point field in 3D space. And so, if you look at, basically, so pointly filters, are different from meshes because imagine a 3D mash or 3D model, basically starts with with points, but then there are triangles drawn between the points and surfaces added to the triangles.
16:31
And and this is sort of done this is sort of done because I believe it's sort of done because you know she just look at a point feel close up. If you see a point fill from far away, it may look like an image, but if you're close up you just have sort of points in space.
16:52
The image sort of the image can appear from far away but it's like looking at like basically one of those dot paintings. When you're up close, it's a bunch of dots. And when you're far away and an image, seeing an images is possible. There's so one way to basically add some some density, some of some missing density into a point.
17:21
Cloud is basically to connected into polygons, connect it into triangles by drawing lines between the points, and then putting, and then turning those lines into surface and this is one way to add dimension, dimensionality to a point cloud. Another way could be to just make the points larger to basically turn them into spheres, but then we have okay.
17:49
So let's say that you are, you're creating a life field, but we want the to, we want the computer to be able to see that that all of that, in the life of the computer to be able to see, you know, what objects are, and an object. It means that all of the points in, in your mental holodeck that are associated with a certain object are identified as points belonging to one object and some other points, those need to be identified as points belonging to some other objects and then we need to do some object classification where we can say.
18:32
Well, these points that represent this object. This is a a fire hydrant and these points that correspond to this object. This is a wall and these points that correspond to this object. This is a sidewalk and the points way over to my left or my head is now pointing to the left that those are those points belong to an object that is a tree and what I'm doing right now, in terms of identifying, what different points are, this is semantics segmentation.
19:14
And when I try one of the times when I tried solving dimorum, which was a legal legal psychedelic medication that you could purchase from tobacco shops and online, there was one occasion in which I lost the ability to to notice the difference between any object in the room. Basically, every object in the room including the room itself merged together into a single swirly mass that I was also part of my our brains.
19:53
So what I'm art, what I'm arguing is that our sense of space is the sense of space. The sense of a world is not a fundamental fact of perception. It's something that our brains learn to our brains learn to divide space into different objects that have different properties. We learned to separate the sidewalk from the window.
20:21
And if you look at basically, you know, the stories of people who have had their eyesight restored artificially after a long time, you can see that there, they go through a journey in which they are interpreting in which they're interpretation of images, of evolves from really weird interpretations. But back towards the kind of classical interpretations of visual imagery.
20:53
We have it in. For instance, one person's one person who is blind for a long time had their sight restored with modern technology and they went through a sort of relearning phase. This is in the book at action, the action and to action in perception. And so they went through this, you know, they they were looking at out of out of the window for a long time across the street and they thought they were seeing like black holes across the street.
21:30
But eventually it turned out that the black holes that that they thought looked like black holes were actually windows in another building but it took a long time for their minds to sort of go from a I guess just a really basic food interpretation of colors in our in a region of space like black holes to recon textualizing that visual image to have a higher resolution pattern that demonstrated a neurology graphic concept of a window with in a, in a building.
22:25
So I went from looking like a weird black hole thing to being having a sharper, contrast sharper, image contrast, which was a window in a and another building. And this is a really good sort of like improvement in in their the visual learning process. But it also highlights that what might be true for when human beings are first born that there is no no real distinction of of space and time no road distinct center space in time.
23:03
But over time, that newborn human being is learning to to make distinctions from the stimulation that is occurring to that human beings eyes and ears that new newborn human beings eyes and ears and other senses. So I I would say that I would think that newborns are functionally blind when they are when they first emerge from the womb.
23:38
And that the ability for a newborn to sort of like, see your eyes and your face, and react to your smile, that these are
23:55
This is not this. These are like,
24:02
Sort of like the preconditioning of reflexes that these are these are like there's a lot of muscle patterns that are firing randomly and they're they're causing the baby to sort of make make like some random facial expressions. And you I remember the last time I was at a live birth, that almost immediately, it seemed like the people who were observing this newborn for projecting, all of this personality and all this, at least characteristics personality characteristics into the expressions that the baby could not possibly have any concept of what these expressions might mean to the adults around them.
24:53
Not it's just not possible but these people were but but I people project emotions onto the faces of babies and they they project interpretations for like as if the baby is making volitional muscle movements instead of random muscle movements. And so, so there is a sort of like, there's a learning process through which the eye, movements are going to respond to sources of stimulation at a low level.
25:32
But it doesn't mean that there's any sort of functional, there's any sort of functional vision happening for a newborn so that. So the eyes may be able to track objects. You know they can track faces that the facial expressions might begin to will begin to over time, begins a copy, other facial expressions, hand movements will copy hand movements and the baby will learn to predict the patterns in the world until there's some perception emerging of, of how of some perception of space in time and the patterns within space in time, that emerges and develops for the baby through the action and perception cycle.
26:27
And so, basically, like constructing reality from the ground up. That's what the brain is doing. And that's what I think the brain is doing, is basically starting off with no conception of space and time and then constructing a conception of space and time from the ground up, from from the court, the, the correlations and decorations of incoming sensory data.
26:54
The learned patterns that are acquired to the action and perception cycle and they these learned patterns acquired through the action and perception cycle eventually. Take on the the, basically a simulation of the universe from the baby from the human beings perspective. Like it in essence, each one of us is sort of simulating the universe from our own perspective, and each one of us in a sense, created our own perception of this universe, we in a sense created our own reality and, but that doesn't.
27:46
But that is, that is in a sense, formed from the building blocks of of inner perception innocentation. And,
28:12
External perception. And and so and in the combination of and then the link between the body of causation which is your body and your mouth, your your voice, the body of causation and your fingers and the the sensory data that is giving you feedback how of, for what the body of causation is doing what you're doing to help you put together.
28:55
And map of your ecosystems that you as the organism to navigate. So our mind is like a holiday deck. And in a sense we are The mind is in a sense. Creating. Its own rendering of space time. But what's interesting is that I don't know. I like to speculate on the the possible idea that everyone is see we're not.
29:39
It's like the idea is that the atom and that every oscillator universe every body of oscillators, which is a human being, is on some of our body of oscillators body of dissipated systems. Every cell is a bit of oscillator, just paid up system. That's oscillating. Every every every person is a dissipative system that's oscillating, we are each.
30:09
Like my argument is that every like every oscillator like a planet is creating space, it's creating a the warping of space time around itself. That space time is relative to to oscillators at all scales from planets to atoms to galaxies that the quantity of space time, emerges from, or expands from the, from, from the atom.
30:50
And so my argument is not only we do, we have a simulation of the universe, that we are creating from the beginning, but in a sense. Also, as oscillators we are creating space time and it's as if every oscillator that ever existed across space time is also contributing to creating space time every bird, every human being, every fish is in effect, creating a note of space time.
31:30
And what happens when we interact with with other oscillators? We're visiting like we we're it's like it's like we're all this sort of like he's like each person is sort of like a strange attractor and and chaos theory or in the but you know Lorenz equation the stranger. That is creating a no to space time that can interact with other nodes of space time.
32:07
And you, you are space-time interacting with space time. But but when you whenever you interact with anyone else and you know, thinking about how all this works is, it's sort of takes away identity. It takes away identity in a sense that I now sort of see myself in everyone and in every life form, like, I see what I thought was me everywhere.
32:43
I mean it is kind of me but it's also not me because it's everyone I see myself in everyone and I can't think of anything about myself this unique other than the position of my of the relative position of my of my head than that. I like, I can't like, I have if my the position of my head comes with, a sort of, I would say.
33:16
Like if there's uniqueness to everybody, it's that everyone is a unique configuration of information, but that can configuration of information is is it's like, Legos. It's like made of common parts. It's like, we all have common parts for you all are made out of Legos and it's all like the same Legos.
33:40
The same DNA. Letters. The same protein molecules the same nucleotide RNA sequences the the we use the but this this this uniqueness is sort of like the uniqueness of of a neurons position in the brain, the neurons position in the brain and notes that in the nose that it's connected to which are turning on and off.
34:20
So sometimes you know a neuron is is connected to some neurons and sometimes it's connects to other neurons. And what this neuron is connected to is.
34:39
To a great extent about sort of like it defines. It's what makes that neuron different from any other neuron is. It's connections. It's, it's synaptic connections and that determines that neurons perspective. In a sense, which determines, which is going to be like, okay, well, when we, when that neuron fires, it means that it's perspective has been activated at that path.
35:12
That's an epic pattern and the brain has been activated and that synaptic pattern, then makes its own pattern to let the rest of the brain know that it has been activated. And so when that when it, when that neuron makes its own pattern, it's firing pattern. That allows it's a perception.
35:32
It's pattern perception to link with other pattern perceptions and so, patterns linked together and now they fire together. And so, basically, you have a firing sequence that represents one pattern and then represents another pattern and then represents another pattern. And that's like, that's like a movie, right? Where a pattern can represent, you know, a pixel on a screen in a movie, or it could represent a line where we could represent a whole frame, you know, a pattern can represent a whole image frame in a movie, you know, movies, you know that sometimes they you've heard, you know, they things like 20 famous per second, 30 frames per second, 60 frames per second movies, have different different possible friends per second.
36:21
So, you know, some, you know, some computer monitors in in 2020 we hearing about the you computer monitor is now doing 120 frames per second or 300 frames per second. There was this NVIDIA monitor, it's a really just basically flash at 1700 frames per second and and they really just wanted to it was really low detail because imagine how much, how much computing power.
36:55
The more frames you have per second, the more computing power it's going, it's going to demand and, but that also to, they had to make it, like, a really low resolution 1700 frames per second. So if you have, if you increase the resolution, more cost, more computing, computing power, and you increase the speed frame rate, then it cost more computing power to render each of the, the frames.
37:24
And so, we need ever larger amounts of computing power, for faster frames per second. Renderings and rendering really is like rendering is the result of a sequence of a firing that unites a bunch of independent marks into a single image that's displayed on us on some sort of surface whether that is a topological surface.
38:04
Or a the functional equivalent of a topological surface and that's where I'm like. Yes. So so people might say okay, well if you're brain is a holiday. Where is the topological surface? And so I'm arguing that we have basically the sparse in distributed representation of topological surfaces that amounts to the functionally equivalent of a holiday.
38:49
But a holiday that's accomplished with with sparse representations. It's like the neurons need only to sort of like reflect a tiny piece of of a pattern just to combine many tiny pieces of patterns for each interval of time and each area of your perceptive field to to produce the functional equivalent of a holiday and your minds.
39:31
And this this then also, I can explain how dreams can be so visual and so vivid, even though you may not be getting any sensory input. In fact, if you go into your sensory deprivation tank, where you aren't getting any light and and ideally you're not hearing any sounds if they if it's not basically sound, the hope is that it sounds for about not every sensory deprivation tank that I've tried was a hundred percent soundproof.
40:06
But, but they really can get pretty close. And So when people get it to a sensory deprivation tank, the the result is that they can have the experience of seeing hallucinatory images without medication and it's it's not, it's also, it's also possible. I mean, I have tried basic. I've also had attacked high hallucinations from drinking 16 hours after drinking a couple of shots of of absent, green absent.
41:03
It tastes like black licorice and about 16 hours after I had tactile sensations as if there were hands all over my body and it was so amazing.
41:19
But so you could have so you could have visual hallucinations, some people have audio hallucinations. They hear they hear sounds and other people can't hear. They hear voices that other people can't hear. This is real, some people see hallucinations without medication. All of our sacks was one of those people.
41:42
He would see like really cartoony funny, weird faces and stuff, and that, nobody else could see. But that this is of pretty well within the range of of what your brain is capable of provided, that things are aren't going aren't going well in terms of your, in terms of your brains health in terms of your brain function.
42:13
According to I guess neurotypical standards. But it can be very like it's not just neurotypical standards. It can be very, they could be very like objective measures. For what is and maybe maybe the subject of measures for what is basically inconvenient, brain function or disabling brain brain function if you are unable to
42:48
So your function as well as you know, someone who's so called neurotypical and the same settings as neurotypicals, that that difference, the neurodivergent behavior can be considered a kind of disability for for you in a very real way. It's it's, you know, I don't know if it's useful to use terms like subjective or objective here in terms of describing what your experiences.
43:17
But certainly they can measure the it. There are differences in your in your function compared to other people's function that could be objectively measured on tests on, you know, your comfort levels around other people your ability to pay attention, your ability to remember. There's lots of tests that can be used to to sort of try to analyze create data that we can be analyzed to sort of poke at and explore.
43:53
The differences between people who are neurodivergent in different ways whether that's autism ADHD or hundreds of other possible mental. Divergent situations and mental disability situations where, you know, someone might be hallucinating audio or visual or or tactile experiences. They may even be, you know, the idea that there is one artist a friend of mine in, who lives in Alameda, not far from San Francisco and the Bay Area and she describes the way.
44:39
I would have described LSD to to another person is the way she describes her normal perception of reality, as if her brain has basically sort of, for sort of like, put her in a situation where she trying to has, she's kind of in an LSD trip all the time.
45:02
She's always kind of like, in a like sort of like visual meltdown and it. And, and she has, she has basically issues related to. I don't want to go into too much detail, but she basically, you know, she has. She has a therapist to for to help her through her difficult moments because her mind is in a sense.
45:37
Rendering in an alternate experience of reality, that's not neurotypical. It's narrow divergent. And it's it's it's it's it's what it's like, it's like imagine if you ever get to try LSD like a match, just like when you try it and you're blown away by the patterns that you see and you just have this like sort of mind expanding experience and you start to question your mind and who you are and and everything you start to think about your own cognition and really interesting ways just like just realize that some people are stuck there.
46:18
Some people are they don't leave that. That place that perspective, that is there reality. And in week could also start to think about, you know, there was this great. So I so I have always been on the autistic spectrum and there was this great a video that for my perspective, just sort of shot out of nowhere on HBO's called Temple.
46:46
Grandin HBO special and tempo. Granted was this sort of like autistic savant or she was really just an autistic person. Who? I don't want to say like me, I think maybe all to maybe all autistic, people are savants in a way, but she was able to see patterns that were beyond the scale of what the narrow typical architects around her.
47:19
Could see she was able to interpret that she was able to see that the cows preferred to move in a sort of circular motion and or spiral like motion and so if you if you designed the cow pens to be around so the cows could sort of like move in a circle and you divide that sort of like even designed the solder houses and and everything so that cows could sort of like move in clockwise circles that meant so much to the cows.
47:54
They meant it was so comforting for cows, to be able to walk around and a spiral versus straight lines. And this is something that people who this is, like, a high level of pattern that neurotypicals are not, they're not paying enough attention to the, the movements of kind of house to have noticed.
48:17
This in autistic architect, it was the one who is able to notice. And so she designed more successful enclosures for cattle that caused less panic. The like the even slaughterhouse is where you know instead of losing instead of you know, the cows becoming frightened in stamping over your over each other and and stepping on the one unfortunate cow that it slipped.
48:48
She was able to keep the callus calmed by moving them, in a sort of circular pathway. That was suiting to the the cows, by rhythms, the calmed them down when they were able to move in a circular path and then temple, granted went on to suggest that autism sort of makes her her perspective a little bit closer, to the perspective of an animal's perspective.
49:23
And so you kind of like you start to wonder, okay. Well, what how many other human beings like Lake? What about the in the evolution of human beings? Over time, the development of perspectives? How many people, you know, sort of in ancient times, would have really been on autistic spectrum and recognize the importance of moving in, circular circular directions.
49:52
And for greater calm, for the greater column of of the collective. This is weird. What a circular, why does moving a circular way? Beneficial to an animal, why? And in another thing that temple granted was she would to design this machine that would squeeze her to apply physical pressure to different sides of her body simultaneously.
50:20
It was a squeeze machine. She could squeeze herself in it. And she found this like immense liberating calm. 





52:46
Activity, excitement, activity in the somatosensory cortex, then, the mechanical receptors. And and in the skin all over, the skin are being activated, they're being this pressure being recognized and that's going to
53:12
Provide a strong low amplitude pattern perhaps or maybe a higher amplitude pattern that will oscillate though it'll oscillate for a long time. It's like and then that would that might lower the noise on, in terms of the brains visual patterns, and the brains audio patterns, and all the worrying thoughts.
53:38
And that a person might be having like just because you are creating a whole bunch of tactiles sensations. So yeah, I don't know exactly but these are interesting. Thoughts and so in addition to like here, you know, how with the holiday you having like we're talking about vision like pixels in your mind like visuals but it's like he's pixels are also their wave patterns or phase patterns that are they're not just, they might, they might be spherical.
54:21
They might you might think of them as like the spherical picks pixels but they're sort of like moving. They're these patterns are moving relative to your head position. So your brain is tracking where you are with with grid cells and is tracking your head position and orientation with place cells, which update a lot faster because your head position and orientation change a lot faster than the place that you're in.
54:46
Even if that place is just like a location on it, on a street or a location in the forest, you, you're in, even if you're like in a car, you're and a sense, you're, you know, or in some other fast living vehicle and maybe an airplane. Usually, you're, I mean, that would be the difference.
55:06
That would be the alternative situation when you're if you're moving through space really fast your entering. Oh certainly, you're forcing your your grid cells update faster than your place sales? Which might, which might be a little bit confusing to your brain and
55:32
Yeah, so that's just that's something to think about. So, you know, I I think that, you know, we speculate that, you know, if if the government had the ability to manufacture brains and a factory that it could create its own like private singularity. And that would, that would be like more powerful than a nuclear than having a nuclear weapon.
55:57
Potentially with sentient artificial intelligence self-aware, artificial consciousness. Artificial, souls machines. Could out think human beings. And this, if this was a, is this power? If a power to make machines like, this was in the hands of one government over the other, then that government would, would quickly, overtake potentially overtake, all other governments, and all other organizations that would be like a singularity moment and in which, you know, power in the hands of of one government, which just exceed all others.
56:42
