b0095y ctpr
(audio note: transcription needs to be fixed)
Realization Keywords Inflammation
00:00
Favoring suggest that realization. Is that differentials correlated? That is an electromagnetic phase change. That is cracked by dendrites inflation. And repeating is the temporal oscillation provides the ability, the ability for the brain to integrate patterns together. Similar to neurophytes innovation and integrating unstructured sets of data from the heart.
00:41
And, I'm very correlated to began the mapping of the the variations between part and between the heart frequency and frequency. The influence of new summation on your brain is is it seems like that might be inhibiting brain activity? Like maybe it's maybe inflammation as particles actually somehow, you know, slow down the delivery of blood or, you know, blood oxygen or maybe a, I don't know.
01:44
Maybe there's some sort of like I was gonna say polluting of the narrow trend of the narrow transmitter.
01:58
For mix but I don't know how that would work. So but it's it's an interesting idea. Like somehow like it. They might cause synaptic transmission slowdown, because there's not enough because ATP deliveries. And inhibited because it is needed to fight the fires caused by inhibition elsewhere in the body.
02:31
The demands of Bluffo might be increasing to deal with inflammation, which is yourselves in the process of and damaged. Okay. So what was this about? Let's see. Favoring against realization.
02:57
Okay, so let's go live, Michael, you're online. And I want you to tell us up, I'm going to be reporting you while you go ahead and sort of talk yourself through organizing your book here. So you're going to use your voice to sort of like anchor, the your mind to what you're working on.
03:25
So let's see, where am I working on this relevant to organizing? So we need to get off Facebook. So I think it is helping me to focus like that on Facebook. So, first thing, first thing I want to do, I'm writing book, get on Facebook. Okay, so let's see.
03:46
Now we've got this thing called the nonlinear. We've got a page that called the nonium layer. Dendritic integration of sensor and motor input during an active sensor. And so the question is, what do we want to do with this document? What do we want to find right now? What's my what's my focus right now?
04:03
How am I going to do this? So I want to get out of the documents jail. First of all, I need to get back up to the high level. Mind maps. Also, whereas versus my map. Okay. So is my match there.
04:22
There's my mascot and I want to actually look at. Let's see. Where's the present table of contents?
04:49
Yeah, this is the pen post, right? Should be opinion. First is
05:04
And at the center should be.
05:10
Okay. So awareness needs to be like, actually, it should be like
05:22
Area about that awareness is a key word.
05:40
Okay, so let's pause for a second. Okay, so I am just gonna do like us up according. So I wanted to the reason I want to bring keywords into and that's that's keywords. You're going to help me to have see. These are my tags. So I kind of want to write down all my tags and I want to turn all of my like chapter names and topic names into taxes as well.
06:08
Okay. So it was right there down, I mean, I've recorded it, I know, but I'm ripped down as well. So let's combine the list of tags with the press topics. And so it's the chapters and so this part is
06:51
Okay, so yeah. So if you say it's a topic or an argument,
