b0092y ctpr
(audio transcription needs editing.)
Phi is pattern resolution consciousness brain

00:00
What one of the the problems with category theory that people quickly point out? Even people who've never read it is that it does seem kind of big. Thank integrated information is so big that. I mean, if anything if you think about your reality right, it's like okay, so if you've ever seen the matrix film and you see that scene when neo sees everything as as basically, all right numbers.

00:32
Like he sees the walls as numbers, he sees the hallway as numbers. He even sees the agents as as numbers and these are specifically, like numbers that are flying in such a way that they their numbers. But they retain the outline of the of the body of the agents and the outline of the body of the wall.

01:00
So you can still in in the rendering, they show in the movie, you can still see that. It's it's really both the the physical structures with numbers running on top of them. At the same time, sort of, sort of, since I had a had an experience with with LSD ones where I experienced San Francisco, basically, like the matrix like like it was made out of numbers and and that I can see into, I could see through it transparently and see the entirety.

01:37
Wow. Permit from a perspective was I was down by the and it comes. You problem with category theory though is like, okay. So at some point, people thought that attention and conscious in an awareness were the same thing and then through experimentation and and observation and careful analysis. They realized that that you're including with, in this combines, you know, imaging that a medical imaging.

02:15
It turns out that they they your brain is able to track and be aware of things that you're not conscious of your your attention. What you're paying attention to is different from what your eye is detecting, the famous video. There's a famous video that I continues to trick me when I, when I see it, which is where you're watching.

02:47
Some people, play basketball. And if you get involved in watching how they're passing the ball, being passed around in the game. Then you missed the gorilla walking across the court like I but still the still gets me every time and like, wait, where's there's a grill? That just walked through here.

03:09
Yeah. And it's, it's, it's, um, but but he what was medical imaging? It's, it can be seen that. Yeah, you're brain is still tracking the gorilla. You're just not paying attention to it and the same. So that that the idea that people want to confuse, you know, attention and consciousness is being the same thing, sort of, in by conscious.

03:38
I mean like the awareness of being the awareness of, I mean, nothing awareness of being, but the kind, I mean. So now I'm using a word to distinguish it from the other word, right?

03:54
The awareness is,

04:02
Not necessarily correlated one to one with, with attention. They can, they can you can how you can have attention happening without awareness and there could be awareness about it without attention, you know? That's the idea.

04:23
But then, we forget to, if we get to integrate information theory, there could be other ways to divide up. What, what consciousness is. And one of those things is to say, well, what if

04:41
What if the because integrated information theory, is I guess. So if there's more if there's more information and there's and it's integrated in a certain way and it's it's there's enough complexity and there's enough operations then then intelligence will just naturally emerge some something like that, right? And I don't know if I might be, I might be misdating integrated information theory, but it's something like that.

05:08
And, you know, they think that, you know, if we're just if we just put enough information together, like if we're just synergize it, if we're just synchronized it and I think, you know following that there's there's, you know, someone came out with this, like, if they call it the resonant and resonating this, because it's kind of like, you know, so it's a map of realities so Buddhism, for example, you know, from the tradition of Buddhism or or actually, maybe I should say spin-off traditions because what is the original tradition of Buddhism or just have all these spin-offs of Buddhism nowadays, some of them official.

06:00
And some of them unofficial and most of what I've been exposed to probably unofficial versions of Buddhism, but I've heard, you know? And it's so like I'm really thinking about spiral dynamics and I know some people are they don't they don't want to hear anyone talk about Ken Wilbur because he's a controversial.

06:21
Figure inspired the dynamics right. He's got his own branch of spiral dynamics and the people and who are not in Kenwover's branch. Don't like it. And so there's some sectarian differences between the the Ken Wilber sectarian brand, whose brow dynamics and the and the other rival church of spiral dynamics and they hate each other, but it's a little bit of humor.

06:57
But there's there's something to what I'm saying. And I'm, you know, it's humor because these are the people who write about the maps of reality, the map of reality, right? The lions and the of development that of cognitive development as a human being grows and matures through time how their mind might develop.

07:25
But it's also about the development of the human psyche, over over the course of history and the development. And I guess the, you know, the main, the main thing that I there's lots of things to take away from cable over but it's that. Okay. Let me see if I can wrap this up, it's that.

08:00
Obviously patient and the complexity of self-awareness and a complexity of your brain like might be once again, completely different completely different banks. And I think that not completely different, but I mean, like, it's the way, awareness, the awareness and so far is this measurement of is an attempt to measure consciousness by measuring the not just the structure of your brain.

08:34
But but but the activity of your brain like for example, if you're using what Christoph cock used which was to use a TMS posts and to use medical imaging to track the TMS pulse as a ricocheted. As the pulses riverbation is ricocheted around the brain. And so that the idea is just a sort of like just to look at the aggregate complexity of brain activity of active brain activity within the complex network of the brain that has a certain sort of, like structure like a cockpit in this book.

09:18
He that he's, you know, there's there's 80 billion neurons and in the cerebellum but they don't, but obviously cerebralines have been disconnected from human beings and he was continued to be conscious. And so was it 80% of 86 billion neurons in the cerebellum and scientists don't think it's conscious because you can cut it off and people are still conscious and so and so what they look at, if they say well, the configuration is too straight.

09:49
The neurons are just lined up, too straight. They're lined up in a row they're nice. And there's not enough lateral connection to support a conscious state, you know, but I don't know, I don't, I don't know of experiment where the, where the, I mean, it looks like just an excitatory network, you know, like a heart instead of, instead of something that has, it's capable of a lot of patterns, a lot of inhibitory patterns.

10:17
So, it's so it's it's it's purpose is a bit of a mystery, if it's not, if it's not for for consciousness, you know, it's it's not a total mystery. It's supposedly, it helps a great deal with balance, you know, with helping you to find your balance. The people who don't have one they they seem to move a little bit more like a drunk person.

10:46
They're their movements are not as smooth and so maybe it has maybe it's a the oscillatory value of the Sort of cerebellum cerebellum is like a magnetic weight. Wait, that helps you balance. Maybe it's like in a I don't know, I don't know. But if it's not it's like okay it's like well you know what's interesting is when you come when you have lots of neurons that are have coordinated synchrony, that's really good for moving muscle.

11:30
Like your heart, for example, it has a lot of neurons that are just it just always fire and secreting, they don't. It's not like thinner is that, it's not the way the nerves behave in the brain, where the neurons sort of have novel pattern novel firing patterns, and yeah, in your brain, there's lots of like you you see different patterns, okay?

11:53
Almost chaotic patterns about you in the bread all the time but in a heart the neurons are like where always the same we never change regular regular the regular and then the next days we're always the same. We never change. You know it's it's there is this there there aren't inhibitory internal networks and in the heart.

12:17
It's not, it's not.

12:23
It's not that there are there. Sensory patterns are not being reflected across the structure of the heart but they are being reflected across the structure of the brain and they're being represented by the structure of the brain because the brain is changing in response to incoming sensory patterns. The heart is not changing at all and response to to patterns from the world.

12:46
It, you know those patterns aren't being sent the heart but if they were the heart would just ignore them it doesn't change in response to two two patterns from from I guess I guess it could evolve to do so over a long time but it doesn't do that and it's not connected that way.

13:06
And and but getting back to information theory is is I think that um with this hypothesis that I that I'm describing something as small as a bug and this is not, you know, I guess in Christopher Cox. But, you know, he was saying that fish could be conscious, could be, it could be because they might, because even though they have far fewer and far fewer neurons, the far smaller brains, they might have, they might have the arrangement for the structure for basic consciousness.

13:41
And so, they're so he's like, making argument. But the fish doesn't have the quantity of the complexity of the human brain. It doesn't have the same phi, it doesn't have. So it doesn't have the quantity of interconnected complexity that, that that matches sort of the, the kinds of operations.

14:06
The scale of the operation doesn't have the scale of the operations that the human brain has, and they're and therefore consciousness, for our fish must be and in some way, like less than such as it might be smaller, or might be just less complex or or they're there, the fishes interpretation of reality must be reduced in some way.

14:34
I I am I want to say that. I think that well okay. If it could be though, that from the fish's perspective there, their perspective is very cramped, all right? And because the fish doesn't know what it's missing. All right, so the fish is perspective, could be, I'm just saying, like like, if imagine is beautiful ocean picture, right?

15:11
And don't know. I don't know. If okay, here's the thing, I think that maybe five or the complexity of the the the patterns that are, I think of pi like five pH, I think it is like, maybe it could be an indicator of the, of the resolution of the patterns that the brain is incorporating into memory at each interval, right?

15:45
The resolution though, I think that fight could be a way to measure the resolution of consciousness or the resolution of our internal patterns that form the walls and fabric of consciousness and that's different from. But that's different from saying that it is consciousness. Now, I think that five represents the resolution of consciousness, like, how much detail exists in consciousness, potentially how detailed the patterns are because you could also, you know, potentially do that TMS experiment and they combine with medical imaging.

16:27
With with, you could combine that with what is it called?

16:42
All right with someone on on Iowa or DMT and they may have they may have eat or someone in the sensory deprivation team and in their brain, could be altered in a way that they don't have normal consciousness. Or they're not like on this plane of existence from their own perspective, they're not aware of their real surrounding.

17:02
They're in an altered mental state and that person might even be dreaming. And what, what are you measuring? What are you? What are you? What, what's some? I don't know. I want to see what that looks like, but if you have, so the, the dreaming state, okay, is Jimmy is different because it's their brain is going to sleep.

17:24
But the person with, you know, on Iowa or DMT their brain, I would expect to bring to be like overly excited and you think that that that would be a good measure of consciousness, but it but maybe they're not. Maybe they're, they're not with us but their brain to really ask you had.

17:50
So they're not really, they're not really conscious of the real environment that they're in, but they're experiencing some, some alteration some alternate reality. That's that's let's call it. How those hallucinations and

18:14

But the but maybe the resolution of their hallucination could be defined with phi, right? Not the not, not not whether they're don't consider it, a quantity of consciousness, but but instead the rest. So it's going back to. Yeah, the fact that, you know, it's clear now through many experiments and careful analysis, that awareness and attention or two different things.

18:40
And I think that with integrating information, we have a situation where the measure of consciousness is not a measure of consciousness. It's a measure of the resolution of the patterns inside a self-aware network and the self-awareness is about the cyclic configuration of the network and other words. So for this is is the result of patterns turned over time in which the outside world and the inside world, our, our learns and the connections between your muscle movements and your body and your form are connected to your incoming senses and what you're doing, and what your experience, and where you are and who you're with.

19:39
And so, you brain is learning a model and it's not, the model itself is not consciousness. The complexity of the model is not conscious because you can have a really complex model in a computer that's not conscious. It's the learned, it's the feedback loop described by Douglas host Adler, the feedback loop in his books.

20:02
Go to Asher Park, and then also follow a book on his range loop that that the data of your, your brain waves, causing changes to your muscle movements, which caused changes to your, the the sense that you're the position of your eyes, and the positions of your ears, and the things you're sensing and hearing and, and, and all your, all your senses combine when they are learned, when you are learning the sort of neurofeedback of your own body through experience.

20:44
That's, that's when sort of like the self-awareness, the patterns, the patterns of self-awareness begin to formulate in the cortex. It's through the feedback loop of lived experiences of patterns forming connections that map. Basically, it's your map of reality and so, yeah. So I'm arguing that I is the resolution of of the patterns of of consciousness, but that consciousness is the looping of pattern defeat the narrow feet, the strange loop, like a feedback loop of patterns or neurofeedback consciousness comes from basically neurofeedback through the resolution of the pattern matrix that your brain is putting together.

21:43
So, so cyclic, brain activity. We're an information, oscillates through circuits. And that incorporates new information from the world, like that is where consciousness emergence. And I think five is, is is a useful measurement for measuring, the gentle resolution of consciousness. But I think that any organism with brain or a piece of brain or like an organide tiny piece of brain, that's in a learning feedback, loop is going to gain some some sort of self-awareness.

22:22
But the resolution of that self-awareness is what's going very? And so you could say, well efficient is going to have through the interaction with this environment. It's going to have a very extremely low. Resolution self-awareness. Comparatively, if you compare this, the complexity of its neural network complexity of an elephant, and elephants resolution of pattern, resolution should be significantly larger scale in terms of the density of patterns and elephant hold them to memory.

23:07
And that's not, that's not just, that's not only about the respiratory image resolution, but that's also about the, the temple resolution. Like, how much time and over? What over what? Period of time can an elephant? Conceptualize reality, can't can memories be linked together. So an elephant can remember memories across a lifetime and put them together temporarily?

23:40
Oh, that's when I was a kid, elephant, they remember being a kid elephant. Now we have kids like that. Those sort of like long-term memories might be more likely to happen in larger brains perhaps the the fishes by comparison to fishes like, you know, the only remember like reality started last week and, and the only thing just remembers is what happened this week, you know?

24:18
Maybe it's like that. So or the other thing air could be. The only thing with this remembers is really, it's like what happened this today and maybe the longest memory of the fish has. It's like there's or can put together it's like a month ago and it doesn't mean the fish is forgetting.

24:33
It's very old memories. Is that it's the idea that the the pattern resolution of the complexity of its mind might limit like, how far it can conceptualize time and I don't know. There could be.

24:54
It could be possible for a creature with a smaller brain to have a glimpse of what it's like to for to have a larger brain to, to, you know what? If what if it's like yeah what if you suddenly had what if you woke up and you suddenly had this conception reality?

25:18
When with about, you know, on the scale of like 10,000 years. Like what if you're just like, really were such a history junkie and an anthropologist and you just just always walked around with like this window of of maybe 10,000 years into the past and 10,000 years into the future.

25:41
You know, I guess some archaeologists are really thinking in terms of 500 a million years, all right? 13.7 billion years, whatever it is the age of the universe. And some people are really in the long. Now, by comparison to, to what's happening with with, you know, there are people who are in the month, they're like in the month, like they're like, they're they don't remember what happened.

26:08
Last month, they're just hearing this month. And there are people who are, you know, their heads are in the 13.7 billion years fan of history. Sorry of the evolution of the cosmos 13.7 being years have the natural stuff of physics-based, natural selection, selection of cosmos, right? Have patterns how patterns develop from the beginning, a legend, beginning time.

26:44
But it sure I'm arguing that by is a pattern resolution and measurement, and it doesn't have to do with self-awareness for consciousness fundamentally. It's not the amount of consciousness, it's about. It's the resolution of your patterns and we're conscious of consciousness, comes about when when you're patterns are when you're patterning learning system, is going to be is entered into a feedback loop or when, when you're face feel is is breathing and learning.

27:19
It's it's phase. Field case you got the item which is the ecosystem in the brain. Is that or your environment? And that's a sort of how I picture. It's like all of our incoming senses. It's it's it's like our brain does a lot to, you know, we have our brain has these sensor arrays, all of our senses are sensor arrays actually and our brain does a lot to reduce reduce them.

27:56
I'm sorry to just select it. There's a lot to just take some amount of information and then reduce that information to a usable amount. It's

28:12
If we had, if we had a way to augment our minds to have a lot more simultaneous, pattern recognition, we could increase the resolution of our minds. We would it wouldn't it? I would say in mind in my deep, it might deepen. The experience of awareness, I guess to have more deeply integrated patterns.

28:38
But then again, it's like, you know, you're going back to the descriptions of kind of can Wilber in the maps of reality. It's like the, you know, there's a description of like, there's a ground of being, which is just awareness. And in this ground of being this, where all forms arise and this is, this is from, like, I think it's from Buddhism, but it's like, if you experience just the like, space of beingness and which all forms arias, that is a map of reality.

29:10
That's is just his unclear. If integrated information theory, but far older and I feel like, yeah, well, integrated information theory is like to say that, you know, the range is just integrated information. It's like what if it's also the sort of like saying, well, the brain has information, which is hardly saying anything at all.

29:31
And it's not really saying anything more than, you know, the brain has just there's in consciousness has a ground of being and then forms arise within that ground or being it's just as it's just as fake, right? It's just as fake, but it's also really new. Like you didn't give any credit to the to Buddhism for coming up with it with its mental models that you're obviously like not that far away from and integrated information, right?

30:02
It's like the it's not an innovation in human history. Buddhism was an innovation in human history. Yeah. The ground of being non-dualism idea that basically that every thought is a distinction from folism and that's and it's it's that's where I'm coming from. It's like yeah. Yo. And so, at the time that I was looking at cannibals work, he was working with Jemroshi who was an habit, who I think were tired, but temporarily created, big mind and big heart.

30:44
And and I purchased also the can robers integral life, practice kit and they walked you through a number of basically mind expanding perspectives where like the one, two, three of God, where you tried on the first person's second person and third person perspectives. The first person you were one with God.

31:10
Second person, you were in a relationship with God. And the third person you were considering other other people's relationships through each other and their relationships to God or something. I forget, but something like that. And they the idea was and then with big mine by car. You got to take on.

31:30
So when you're the voice of big mind, you like you've shifted your seat and you've become this voice. So big mind is like I you know, you realize. Wow, I'm if you're the big bind, you're everywhere. And there's no way you need to go because you're everywhere. When you're big heart, you're you're you're, you know, it's like there's your heart as everywhere and you're you love everything.

31:57
And then when you're when you're big joy, you know, it's like these are great, you know, it's like this great joyful feeling that has nothing to do and nothing to get and and even great even great doubt. It's like well if you doubt everything and there's nothing there's there's really there's no reason to hope and if there's no reason to help that is very liberating feeling with this.

32:22
We can be, if you get to like truly, like, truly hope that we're truly hopeless, that feels pretty good because you don't have there's no burdens on you. There's no reason the hope about anything so you can just relax now. It's a it's all uncertain so you can just chill out.

32:43
All right. Are you sure about that? It's like a great, great doubt, great hopelessness. These are these sounds scary. But when you get really to the bottom of them, there are also liberating. And so he would walk you through with big mind, big heart, they would walk you through the protector, the voice of the protector, which, which what do you do when you're with the protector?

33:09
Well, that's a self-explanatory job. You protect, you protect yourself, you protect the body. And it's like, so you ask yourself these questions. Okay, so it has this worst. Would you do if we've got the function? The job is the function. Is, you're the protector or you're the controller. What is the controller do?

33:30
Well, it takes the function and it applies this function to everything, like, like the, like the, like, the the person who tries to hammer, who thinks everything is a nail. So when you're taking on the perspective of the protector, or the controller, where the or the the the innocent, then you are basically playing that role towards everyone and everything and in your imagination.

34:02
So you're basically like exploring this voice. Okay? So if I found a protector, I protect everyone else and I protect myself and I protect everything and and it's it's it's also useful to sort of like, take on like, I mean, I I didn't see him do this, but I imagine that would be so take on archetypes, mythological archetypes.

34:29
If I am the, the, and, and, you know, you could take on also voices from from Hinduism, and from, you know, from from you, can take, you can take on voices from from Marvel, Marvel comics, or from from a Greek mythology, or from, basically, from any tradition. You could take, you could sit on, you could you can sit in the character that you want, take it on and explore it for your own.

35:06
For the for almost. Like the development of your own psychological patterns, that, that connect to these different characters. And, and I think even that you could, you could have an experiment where people sort of like, take on other people that they're, they become other people in any guided meditation.

35:35
They become other people that they've been had in conflict with, they become those people, so that it's like, it's like you're emboding. The pattern that that you've been using to, to understand someone else's mind, you are own minds model of someone else's mind and you embody their pattern, you become them.

35:54
So, you can expect, but the purpose is not so you can become them so that you can develop your, your, your pattern, for their, under, for understanding who they are. You want to develop your pattern for understanding who they are? So you can understand how to more successfully either avoid them or interact with them or to resolve complex that you have with them.

36:24
Whether it in terms of interprets of like your model in terms of resolving your model of reality. This is separate from the resolving your real world context with them you know actually but like resolving your inner conflicts with them. So that you so that if you encounter them you would have a strategy ready because you because you are not conflicted anymore.

36:49
So if you encounter them again, you'd have a strategy, ready? It's like you're developing your your own patterns through this through this practice called big mind. The cart your own mental patterns and, and I think that that had value for for me, if there are a lot of people like mind expanding value because you could become the way, the way that is everywhere and everything, right?

37:12
The way is, is something that that has been spoken of in religious, by many by multiple like, religious leaders across traditions. Like the the way is like the way things are. It's like the way of the cosmos, the way is the everywhere and everything it is another version of big mind and big heart.

37:40
It is this sort of like omnipresent way and it's the polarity of the seeker. Like you understand that the seeker is the one that striving and the seeker. When we say I'm the seeker, I'm the one who's always thirsty. For more information, the brain is always seeking and it's never satisfied.

37:57
Like, once you get something, then you want something else you can never be totally satisfied. But, but the secret is, also the polar viewpoint of the way. So, the seeker is this sort of, like, high frequency, basic seeking this pattern. It's always like incomplete and always hungry and always wants always desires and always leads to suffering but also always leads to life.

38:26
And and then so when you alternate say well, the secret is also the way. So I'm also the way the way that is everywhere and everything I'm entropy, I'm extropy serving entropy, you know, or whatever. You're the year. The you the process of the customers. Basically, you're the the, the the, you're the atoms, shooting out of the star and now, and now tumbling them together.

38:58
And, and into into knots. It's a gravitational notch, either the way. And So, being the way is being everyone everywhere. And but the way we are, the way is by also embodying, the seeker or the secret is that, you know, the path seeker because we couldn't find the path unless we're also seeking it.

39:27
So the, so the way is the path and the seeker finds the path and the seeker finds the self. And so the observer I guess you could say well the observer is the way and the the neural, the neural physic firing pattern is is the path of the seeker.

39:45
Charting through the treading through the, the, the bed of the array of the oscillating field, oscillating, phase field trading the patterns through it. And So so that's why. So that's how I connect. Yeah. Like bootism and sprout dynamics and Ken Wilbur, but also Douglas hosted lyric and then and then I used that sort of say to Drake it argument that, you know, that integrated information, there is undifferentiated between the resolution of the textures in your consciousness and it and your consciousness off.

40:45
So my argument is yeah, is that is is that your graphical awareness is has a resolution and that resolution would be defined by what would be could be defined by 5 but that self-awareness has no resolution. And and is it is about the design of self awareness is about the design of a circuit.

41:15
And so you say well with self-driving car has a feedback loop, does it does. So isn't itself, awareness and self-driving car? It's not it's not, let's just say it's not human, like so it's not human like that a and it's not, let's say that it's not can have a car that is rented, heads on rendering of reality.

41:46
And it has has, and it's not, you can even render. Tactile sensations. The render that patterns associated with feeling. You could render them but it's the it's it's it's not just the, the pattern is looping together in a feedback loop. It's also the frequency, it's the, it's the it's specifically the temple.

42:17
What makes us human like what makes our minds human? Like is the temporal spatial frequency of the oscillations of these patterns.

42:33
Of the oscillations of these matrices of patterns. This is temple space for frequency. So you could have the I should say, more than that, it's the temple spatial frequency of the of this circuit that interlaces different sets of of patterns together.

43:06
And so you can have lower resolution patterns that would, you know, so and and I suspect that, you know. So for example, if my hypothesis is right then a dog should have lower resolution patterns, right. And but also a child should have our resolution patterns because they haven't had enough time to develop the resolution.

43:28
And so you can say, well, maybe at some point the reality for a dog is like, so maybe for human being reality. It's like like if we're to say this was pointed to video games. Okay so we've got the this old view game from you know 1985 called helps streets of rage to it was a streets of rage.

43:54
Three streets of race to or another. One is street fighter. To Street Fighter 2 is another fun game. Mortal Kombat was on the game, but these are all, these are old games that came out in the 1980s and in the the modern modern games, you know, there's the grant that daughter five, there is counter strike and these are these are much more 3d.

44:22
The graphics are better. What is the Fortnite fortnite as of as a modern video game? People play a lot of there's this new VR version of of the game resonate evil for and resident evil. For number four. And the the thing is that

45:02
Let's imagine that the the dogs mind is able to render reality, as come as is mentally complexes as a game from 1980, like, you know, like the Ninja Turtles game or the Shinobi game, you know, like let's say the say that when the 
dog is a puppy it's just rendering.

45:26
And same thing is like when it's your own child. Is it's just just a child that the reality they're rendering has, like the the rendering complexity of something like Pac-Man or, or paper boy, just a really simple two bit, you know, not too bit, you know, like an 8-bit video game and, and, and then the complexity increases by interval, until like, you know, at some point, the, the child was just had the complexity of their knowledge of, in terms of like, if you think of the video game is not just graphics, but also the knowledge of functions, like there are video games like super Mario that involve very few buttons, just lots of, you know, jumping and running jumping and running and pressing 
forward right pressing forward.

46:26
That's what you need, basically jumping and running. Impression for you, can I think you can press backwards, but it's not really necessary in Mario. You could just run all the time and you know, but the functional complexity is not is not very great. And then you have games where like an RPG where there's like you have to, you have to go through all these steps.

46:51
So of equipping, your character and buying, you know, items for your character, and killing low level monsters, to get money to buy things for your character, and to build up. Like you basically your character has to work to get things so that it can so they can though so that it can then go and battle bigger monsters and then getting even more things and then eventually your character might save the world or or die or, you know, you never know with, with RPGs with the stories gonna go.

47:31
