b0096y ctpr
(audio note: transcription needs to be fixed)
Neurons Array Perspective Interlace
00:00
An array of sensors magnified. The patterns for another array to detect, magnified patterns to create pattern, representations of your senses for other neurons, to detect and magnify additional insights to another array of nerve. So the next set of neurons is going to render a different perspective or a different idea or a different concept or different sort of like yeah.
00:33
Just like, you know, many times I think perspective will be perspective at a different scale of from a different point of views. But in any case, the whole rendering of your conscious experience, consists of basically like temporal patterns and special patterns of from your that represent your incoming sensory patterns, sort of like overlayed and interlaced with one another like conscious reality is the interlacing of audio patterns with with tactile patterns and visual patterns.
01:11
These buttons are interface like as if they were all sort of the same field and that is a competition, the multi-layers of rendering across space and across time and across different scales. And the bra is oscillators and tends, instantly denting tensions. A good tangent is I love that scene in the movie Blade Runner 2049 when he when he had.
01:44
I said, I don't really love. I don't realize that scene but I I find that same interesting in retrospect because he's he's, he says, the words interlace several times and it's like well what does it have to do with the fact that he's like, he's like an Android made out of a human DNA, but he's a mechanical Android.
02:04
And so what is the word interlaced mean for him interference patterns? It's like if you shot it, if you if you projected a phase that I face pattern that represented a tactile pattern with the visual pattern with an audio pattern. You protect them together onto the same sort of like array.
02:34
Just as far as differentials different from each other, they're causing their patterns arriving in sequences that. The idea is that they these patterns are sort of like internally seeing or rather. They're going to be interlacing as as bits as coincidence. Patterns detected by by a neurons in another row.
03:05
And so they're interlacing. But they're also when they fire together, they they continue oscillating together because oscillations sort of like absorb or eat other oscillations. And so you have two different oscillating neurons. If they fire at the same time, then they start oscillating and they keep firing. If that means, like they're voltages, both reach the same thing.
03:30
So they, so the in theory they both they if they both recognize that same pattern, again, they're likely to fire together again or I mean the alternative is that one of them can become inhibited from fire? When that new at the time that pattern comes back and only one of them, my fire.
03:49
But if you have, if six of them learn the same pattern and in and they all fire together, and then, you know, three or three, a three of them, you know, we're inhibited in one cycle. And so, you know, just two of them members to fire represent that pattern.
04:09
Maybe that would be enough to to trigger, you know, actually potentials to reduce threshold or you know combine with other signals received from from from serving like other neurons in, you know that are firing afterwards like in a different step of the temporal sequence in a different sort of like time interval than it could be, that there's a coincidence across, that is occurring not only like across time and across space but a call but across scale simultaneously.
04:55
So it's like really complex. The brain could through several layers. Track really complex, the men, multi-dimensional patterns, going, I think going beyond, I'd like to imagine that the brain can go can detect patterns that aren't that are much more complex than what you can represent in four dimensions with three dimensions of space in one of time.
05:25
Like I like, well, I mean, there's the great the great series of YouTube videos talks about, you know, just imagine in the sixth dimension.
05:37
But, but you basically have right there by laying bases together. And in the next array, you have a sort of like the basis for tomographic instruction or what, I think the meant the difficult things from new menta is referring to as voting.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio