b0106y ctpr
(audio, book)
Sensory Arrays Ions Potassium Neuron
00:00
So the book is to start a conversation. I wanted to write down, sort of like a large summary of where I'm at now. And then I want to take the different. I want to bring this book sort of with me, so I can interview people probably on clubhouse and we can record our conversations and, you know, I can record it and publish it, it'll be the new release podcast.
00:28
Now, I've already done many past. I've done several past recordings been realized podcasts, but, but I would, I believe it. So there's stuff in the past you can check out you can listen to old recordings. But, but so I believe the idea is that I'm sharing in this book, you know, some of them could be right.
00:49
Some of them may not be right. Most of them, probably need to be updated. There's probably like, you know, some sometimes you like you don't realize what's missing until you like try to like really into the weeds between like you say like I can describe like to like two steps in a physical process and and the mechanical operations of the brain.
01:10
But then it's like, oh, wait a second will help. Well, what's in between those two steps like what is actually happening materially and physically between those two steps. Like there's more sometimes there's like a there's more to explore than you realize, you know, like it especially like if you have a limited model of the of the brain that is about of the neuron that it's about, you know.
01:32
Okay, you've got sodium ions and you've got potassium ions and like, you send me right away, it's gonna have it when the sodium ions come in. How do they stay separate from the potassium? Ions. All right, when the potassium ions go out, how do they stay separate from? Like you have to, you have to realize.
01:48
Okay, well there, you know, you talk to someone. They say, well, there's a difference. There's a different sort of salinity. It's like it's like two oceans that don't mix, you can put different kinds of ions. Next to each other, there's calcium ions basically seen right next to soadium ions and they don't mix and it's like, it's like of two fluids of different salinity.
02:09
Don't don't mix. You can see that in in the cases where, you know, you you look at one ocean meeting, another ocean and there's two different colors for two, different bodies of water and they're not mixing together. It's and but so, in any case, that's sort of the sort of the situation is that the brain is is
02:41
That you might, but you might not know you, you might not realize like your level of detail. Like, you know, you might not realize that when an action potential happens that the that the neuron actually expands physically bikers and actual mechanical wave that is speculated to be propagating through the membrane, which is held together with the membrane or the of the cell separates the in inside of the cell from the outside of cell.
03:11
There's, it's not to be that electromagnetism is holding the membrane of the cell and it expands. And so the cell expanse, when the action potential fires, like a balloon expanding and and it's thought that that is creating a mechanical way assault on wave and acoustical way of a lot perhaps a longitudinal acoustic acoustic wave because there's definitely like that expansion is definitely.
03:42
Yeah, I think of it as like a sine wave, right. The sine wave is like is like up in them and they you know it's like it's like this like a sound wave, all right. But then there's also like it's also speculated that the action potential because it is, if you think about the it flows long, a direction, but the act direction is the body of the cell.
04:09
So it has a four direction. It's like a vector in space. Almost, it's not, not necessarily a perfect vector, but but, but it has a direction and it. And so it's speculated that it has that it's creating a, it's called an electromagnetic, the electricity graph and the magnetic graph.
04:43
And magnetic field. Magnetic field. Any electric field if simultaneous activity. So we have three kinds of soluton waves, mechanical, electric and magnetic, magnetic happening, simultaneously with every action potential. And you likely most of the stuff that like you may not realize that information is missing from your model of a neuron.
05:09
You know, it there's there's in terms of like the might there's, there's four different possibilities when it comes to neurotransmitters being sent out and you may not realize this is missing from your model when you're neuron, but you could have between zero, one, two and three. Vesicles being released, right?
05:34
And the in and that is going to be based on the shape of the action potential. Whether you get zero one, two or three release and shape of the action. Dependent potential is is based upon calcium. Sorry it's based upon potassium and and how and how quickly potassium was able to either inhibit the cell or or repolarize it.
06:05
So even more potassium receptors are opened by by nearby neurons. And the cell could be inhibited or or or acre, or it could have a shorter way, right? Short away. So that means that the sodium opened the way of and the patent closes the wave and if potassium opens sooner or faster if potassium opens faster because more channels are pulling it, then the wave is going to end sooner.
06:43
And so fewer. In that case, I would expect fewer micro vest fewer vesicles to release to be released. So that you know, you might. And in that case you might only have one vessel release. And so one vestically releases is that maybe 2000 ions and so 2,000 narrow transmitters that doesn't mean or GABA or set of clothing.
07:18
And our serotonin, right? But there's another, there's nothing. So, if this show, if you're modeling around is now that you've got, you know, sodium and you've got ions, and you've got calcium and potassium and and you've got neurotransmitters, like, GABA and a set of colon and dopamine, if that's it.
07:41
If you may not know that that you're also missing the fact that among those neurotransmitters are are things like ATP that when the the ATP gets in the mix that you're that your cell is, is bringing in ATP. Hi, it's bringing in the energy. The energy of ATP, is your energy currency that's like a little battery.
08:09
It's bringing in little batteries. ATP is a little battery for yourself, right? It's your energy. And so when the neuron fires into bringing in, I mean, when the synapse is open, and after the not fires it's it's it's transmitting energy also. So neurons are, are there. They're bringing an energy when when this in apps is open.
08:40
And I mean that I mean the posts is bringing an energy so the that's interesting. It's like, right? It's like that is like, you know, you think about the fact that, you know, there is basically like a tonic firing rate that does it? That's where it's this, the brain is all synchronizing together.
09:01
And, you know, Dr. Peter C. He he he's a neuroscientist from. Who's professor at Princeton. And and he wrote this, the criteria causation book that the narrow basis of free will criteria causation and he you know points out that basically if if all the cells are firing at the same rate, there's no information in that pattern.
09:30
It's like they're that's like they all have it. You know, there's there's no complexity to that that you how you can't write a sentence and that necessarily. If every if every neuron is firing together, there's not making distinctions or at least the pattern distinguishes a really insignificant to contain the complexity of art our lived experience so that can't.
09:57
So it's, you know it's like well how it doesn't make sense to oscillations could command consciousness because, you know, if you're only if you're only considering the fact that there that the
10:15
That's you know but in any case it there is a there is a way and so that is something I get into another in another chapter how oscillations contribute to our sense of reality.
10:47
But the point was that, you know, neurons sort of like, have a mouth. They are feeding through the dendrite, right? And so, but like in like like and like dissipative systems. They, they all they have to intake energy in order to maintain their own equilibrium and they have to expel extra pee to this surrounding environment.
11:16
So, I would expect that the, you know, I guess that,
11:27
You know, in theory there the if the neuron might be expelling, some sort of waste product from the from the exit terminal and caring, it could be that though, I mean, it could be that the waste product could be considered to be
11:54
Like the this all time waves, right? The electric magnetic and mechanical field waves electric magnetic and mechanical fieldways. Yeah. Has interesting because a mechanical field wave, right? Is just a it's just the way that that is happening at the scale of of molecules and chemicals. So in a sense it's just a larger way.
12:34
So a mechanical field wave is still an electromagnetic wave in a sense. It's just a larger scale wave. That happens at the mechanical level, but it's very essentially, both kinds of waves are. Are the saying it's to say it's the same fractal. It's like there's a friend. It's like the universe is a fractal of wave patterns.
13:04
A fact of wave pattern is that sometimes becomes cyclone patterns,
13:12
And yeah, and those are the, those are the kind and I, you know, I the wave pattern again I think its by itself is is also a nature right for me. They're being like in a solid state or in a way state but the constant sort of like a constant oscillation between, you know, testing and flowing like questing and flowing like, the solid state is like, the crest of the wave, and which is just like, it's almost like the whole wave posits for a second as a crest.
13:52
Not really. But it's almost like it and then and then if then, it starts to flow any other direction, right? So it lifts sort of like lifts up. And then the direction of the flow shifts, it's kind of like right like a wave has a has a flow, right?
14:08
And so like, yeah, so maybe the peak of the wave is like the, the peak of the particle and then when and then the rest in the particle has motion, and the motion is just like, when the wave is not at its peak. When it's not a particle mode, it is it's falling from particle mode, back to motion mode, and tell it eventually gets back to particle mode again, right?
14:37
And that. And that's why that, the particle either has a location or momentum. It's literally oscillating between being the wave being at at its peak pressing and then away sort of like, collapsing, again into the sea. And it's interesting to think of like the, you know, you think of how the moons gravity is affects the waves on on earth.
15:15
Right. And think about that because it's like the ocean is is is also like a big particle field. And that means that the electromagnetic and mechanical fields electric magnetic and mechanical fields, which are all EM fields just a different scales that these are
15:52
All being interact. They're all being interacted with by the gravitational force. Right. There is an intro. There is interactivity between gravity and the electromagnetic fields because because, you know, we like gravity is sort of described at the at the classical scale or the the the molecule scale, right? But mechanical waves are really just fractals.
16:29
And of EMWA. So just larger scale fractals of the amines, right? And yeah. So so but yeah, so it's interesting that like, you know, so the neurotransmitters that get expelled from one neuron, they don't. Like I said, there's they don't go into the body of the next cell. They stay in this, an app to cleft and they're either like, swept away, like the brain like sweeps away, that space and the stuff in it or, or which is in and then.
17:16
So what does go into the? The neuron is, is the sodium. That's nearby. So that the receptor is, is carefully is carefully. A configured to only accept like sodium ions or only accept potassium ions. So you're not getting a bunch of like but also eight bit also, ATP flows in.
17:41
So somehow ATP is like, right and in the in the in the it's somehow it's it gets into, I have to figure out how this works because somehow I think it gets into the sodium and then it comes in to the
17:58
Their transmitter with the sodium. So ATP can be like another way that you're like the presence of ATP. I guess could be. It's another component because it has a to be has to come in to the cell because it's used by the nucleus of the cell. It's used by the microtubule so it has to get into the cell somehow.
18:30
This is a needed thing. The cell has to intake ATP. He needs. It needs energy. Needs power to keep cycling like a dissipated system. I just thought of like another cavity. So your mouth isn't like another cavity, right? Where your tongue is basically like the hand of the mouth.
18:56
It's basically like. But it's it's flat and enough that it could be it could be wrapping around like the bottom of your mouth, right? Like your tongue could be in theory, like you could think of your tongue is like a retina, right? But instead of being like stuck to the inside of the eyeball or the cavity of your mouth, it mostly sticks to the bottom of your mouth but it but it has evolved to be a muscle that can push food around your mouth.
19:26
Push food towards your teeth for example, so you can crunch food and that will help you to digest, it helps your digestive system, it's part of your digestive system for you to, for your saliva, to get all over your food and for food to be ground with your teeth and your tongue.
19:49
Helps that your tongue also senses with the food, is it? Senses has sensors on. It has taste bugs, right? And so those sensors are really important but the basically like yes. So your eyeball is like is is a circular cavity that contains sensors around the interior sort of like they create this.
20:14
And think of it as like an array. It's a sensor array, right? And your hand has sensors all over the whole surface of your hands. So your hand is a sensor array, right? The cells have our centers and you have an array of sensing cells over all of your skin, right?
20:36
And then you, so you're tongue is an array of sensors in the interior of your mouth is also but your tongue has special sensors, right? And, and because you don't taste things on the top of your mouth, while you're doing your tongue. There's just, there's, you know, it's, but you can think of like the tongue is basically, like, is analogous to to her hand and that it moves around and and but it, but it's, but it's also, you know, analogous to to the eye.
21:08
And that it's it's it's inside a spherical cavity. So this vertical cavity is your. It's like a sensor array inside a spherical cavity. So you have a spherical cavity. That's your on this. Your eye has a sensor inside it. The, the, you know, it's, we're you point the ears are, you know, you can, when you when people draw ears they often draw like ovals, right?
21:32
So, it has a in here has like an oval shape, and it has like smaller oval shapes, and side, as you go. If you look at the, if you look at the it's almost like it's almost like a, it has, you know, it's like a series of like, old shapes as you go, as you explore that, the 3D topology of a neuron and it almost.
21:57
So I must think of it as like an inverted tree branch. Like this is where I treat like if you created a mold for a tree branch and maybe it would look like your ear right, where it's where the empty space sort of looks branch like as it as it goes from larger to smaller with your ear.
22:17
And and so the sound I guess is is, you know, it's, it's traveling in scale. Sound travels in scale from, from, from your ears. Like, it's like a cone, it takes a big sound and shrinks it down, right? So it shrinks it down, so that so that it's it's got, there's another inside another cavity inside your ears.
22:51
Now there are, there are basically hairs connected to neurons, basically hair cells that are detecting the vibrations of your of the sounds, but it's like again, it's like a sensor array that is doing that. That is capable of four. Dimensional tomographic, tomography, you say that each of the sensor raised are sort of capable of four dimensional tomography or at least collecting the signals of four dimensional demography.
23:30
Okay, and four dimensional tamography. Basically is like collecting all of the signals of of a four-dimensional phase field. So that the so that the brain can at some point but those signals together and construct, a four-dimensional phase shield to represent the modality. That's being studied to represent the the world that's being refracted by light to represent the details of sounds of where they where the sounds are coming from in that world and the details of what's being touched.
24:06
If if it if it can't be seen and then also how that also helps establish the correlations between site and sound and touch so, so you can realize that what you're touching and what you're seeing and what you're hearing, could all be the same thing or they could be different things.
24:28
And so this is what the this is what the arrays of of the brain our useful for and then so like okay. So like but then the question is even if we're intaking all these different points. He's these point these pointfilled arrays and constructing internal modalities who's inside us to observe this happening.
24:55
And that is where it's where we get to the next the next step.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio