b0103y ctpr
(audio: transcription needs to be fixed)
Neurons Oscillation
00:00
Stein. Condensation is an oscillation when a bunch of atoms.
00:11
And oscillator sync and sink. So the idea that the probability cloud that the probability cloud of an atom is like an oscillator is a little bit like an oscillator.
00:31
And a sense that like the both Einstein condensate. It's like if you have many, many items that are all oscillating as one and if they don't, I'm just like, so would I just started to imagine was like, what? If what, if what if a particle was like many microparticles, right?
00:53
Like what if it was like, innocence, like a matrix of particles all sort of like oscillating together, but honestly together, in a way that would cause the like one part of one part of that oscillator to light up at a time. When you say well, that's like the that's where the particle is but but it really seems like it's the particles location is all over the place because that is just like one possible face state for that space so represented.
01:30
So like that one the location where it's at in one moment is kind of like that's like that's like the neuron that fired and they are the rest of the space is like the part that listened or the part that was inhibited in a sense. And so, it seems to be moving around.
01:52
It seems like the particles moving around, but maybe it's not really moving so much as there is basically this. Like what if it like represents this compression of space? That is actually made out of
02:15
Yeah. What if it's like a fractal space? Like we're like, what if like what if the particle of a face field has its own face feel, right? And so the reason it's behavior is some mysterious is because it's micro face field. Inside the pace field is basically repeating the same patterns as a larger phase field, kind of smaller.
02:41
So on scale.
02:45
So yeah, like that's like that's gonna make sense. Yeah. Yeah, that's great. So, I'm imagining an oscillator as like, like, as like imagine that you are.
03:08
You are rolling around like it's like it's like when energy is spiking right? Then then everything is in disarray and then if you roll around that is really like let's say you have like a ball, like a sphere and you roll it around and this move it around real fast, right?
03:29
So it's like, the liquid inside is spinning around. Use a sphere, and you've got liquid inside and spinning around. And if you when you slow down the shaking, the the liquid inside is going to gradually slow down from, like, moving around, really crazy. It's going to start, it's going to be, you know, waving back and forth for a while.
03:52
But eventually it'll become very spilled as long as, you know, don't move. And so, that's what I think of, in terms of like, what is kind of like, why, you know, also tourist states like a move. I'm sorry. Why also store? Why? Why neuront, what? Why neurons eventually moved towards being an oscillatory state where there is because as a reaction to the action potential, it's like the action potential is just is a drop in the ocean and the rest of the neurons are absorbing and redistributing that way everywhere until it runs out of energy.
04:36
Sort of so they're like they're bouncing that way of all around until it runs at energy. Basically. And that's like, it's not that it runs out of energy. It's that the, the network reads a new equilibrium, right? Which is like it represents the maybe it represents the act was acquisition of that energy.
05:02
I guess it's like now we went up like one point to voltage or something and so is tiny modification to the to the oscillation phase frequency and then that so that oscillations collector phase frequency is you know that is like that's a that's a brainwave right? The face frequency emerging from net from cortical columns and oscillators groups of neurons.
05:41
Those are there's a brain waves, right? And they don't and and they're reflective of the collection action of the collective action of neurons that are oscillating together. So I am arguing that those brain waves are containing basically. It's the oscillation phase changes are containing. The sort of like, those are the screens.
06:15
Those are the four case screens that are being presented to your thalamus, that in collectively. They're pretty in the being presented to the, to the default network, right? Which is connects the default that, you know, just the major connections. The major connector areas between the different parts of the neocortex are acting like a fractal screen for your for your downness, right?
06:51
And for your, But in any case it's just though it's it's your whole brain is the screen, okay? Your hold the whole band is. But what I'm saying is like the center of your focus, like, like, imagine your focus has three different levels, right? So the, so, the center of your focus would be, you know, like where the brains major connections of our.
07:23
So I was thinking like the the analytic bridges are major connections between brain areas. So that would make sense. If you know that it's like a convergence point where that that's where you get your basically that would be the center of your focus. Theoretically or information is seen from the largest scale at the top of the hierarchy.
07:49
In innocence, you know, if there's like a, you know, the signals come in from your senses to the nuclei on the thalamus, and then they go from the thalass, to the yoke, to do the neocortex. And there's these narrow paths that go throughout the new cortex, where the information goes to the occipital lobes.
08:16
From your from information, eyes goes to the along the optic nerve to the a lot of option, gentile nucleus. And the that is a collection of nuclei. And they then that's right to your occipital lobes and that goes connects to that splits off into the parietal lobe above and in signals.
08:42
All right. You know have a path that go towards the temporal lobes before below and and in general like everything, connects everything and the brain and you know in a sort of like random graph way. So that there's mathematical proof that the distance between 83 points and the brain.
09:06
Isn't that great isn't that far away? There's very few hops between any two distances in the brain. And yes. So, but the idea is that I'm positive, but I'm just like imagining like, if you had If you had like sand, right? Like like I'm just saying like I'm just like imagining like sand.
09:40
It's like or I mean if you imagine like water right? Yeah. What actually water is the probably the best agency. It's, it's going to sort of like settle. It's going to look forward in equilibrium. The signals going to spread out, or it doesn't happen to honor, but we're thinking more like, okay.
09:55
So, we've got three different oscillators and they have three random initial voltages and they each, you know, collect a little bit of voltage each round and they get moved up. And then so, they each reach a threshold and they fire when they fire, they kick the other two, which means in addition to the voltage, they're getting each round, they get an additional amount of voltage.
10:21
And the idea is that this keeps happening over and over again where where you know, one neuron will fire, it will kick the other two and eventually to get to the point where all three of them fire at the same time. So eventually all the oscillators end up firing in sync.
10:41
Because eventually there what their distributing is like reaches equilibrium. It's like they each they're each. So it's the it's like the richest one is is gonna give to the other two and then when the next person becomes the richest one, they're gonna give to the other two and the next person becomes rich one they're gonna give the other two and eventually you know if they're just constantly giving to each other, then eventually they all have the same amount, right?
11:15
If they're giving like, if they're each giving like one each turn to the other two, every time they fire eventually, they all have the same amount if this just happens along enough for a long enough time. And in that sense like you can send signals to an oscillator but anything you send it like what happens eventually if you stop sending signals soon oscillator is that they all eventually oscillate together, right?
11:42
And I just becomes like an array. I sent her right like the, the entire oscillate oscillating group of neurons becomes like, a sensor array that can remember its own activations, because that certified creates it creates cascading reactions. All right? And, and the cascading reactions that happen are the memories of that of that they're human member.
12:27
Those are human memories. So, the cascading reactions are the activation of the ST. Activistry that the activation of memories, the formation of the of, that's the rendering. So that pattern is the point of rendering. That is what, what? I'm actually seeing in my head when I look at something outside of me, like a wall.
12:56
But right at the same time that entire oscillation, right? That is something that is observed at an even higher level, right? It's patent. What I'm saying is that they're there are other oscillators who can interpret the output of that.
13:26
Of that one oscillator. Like that's that's when we're going from like you know to the pyramid cell that now collects the internal and that connects to another portable column. All right? So, the idea is that the the output of one oscillator. So, the oscillator magnifies the the pattern that and if you look at this book called sink and chapter 2, it's really great.
13:54
I mean, share something, each oscillator is distributing. It's extra energy, each time it's like dissipating. Each one is dissipating, the energy and the collective work of all dissipating. Energy is going to even out the the amount of energy at each has the entire system is going to even out the energy.
14:14
So that's why oscillation happens, equilibrium happens. Okay? So what I just imagine was the that basically, the neuron is Just so so oscillator synchronized because they're basically dissipating energy. They're taking a lot of energy that one of them receives just and each. One is like saying, okay, well, I need to dissipate this energy because a charge has built up.
14:50
So and the amount of energy that's being dissipated is the signal pattern. So the signal pattern is at the very latest with neurotransmitters. Like at the root of it, neurotransmitters can do the can do like they can. There's four partners four possible signals and I call those the signal zero which is an inhibited neuron it sends nothing signal.
15:20
One is a tonically firing neuron signal two is and that would be something that would be transmitted with really sort of one vesicle sack. They have might have, it might have 2,000 neurotransmitters in it and the signal too is when the, that's, that's a phasic burst. So it's not a tonic, so neurons firetonically all the time.
15:45
But when they fire because they've received, they've recognized the pattern, a pattern, which means that the pattern is, is stored in in the, in the walls of their synaptic branches. Like there's synaptic, there's synaptic synaptic connections, the synaptic connections that neuron has is constantly are constantly changing. And that's the the pattern that that neuron is ready to receive, it's going to reject patterns that it that it's not looking for because that it's because because it just won't see patterns that it's not looking for because those won't go to its it's it's active synaptic connections.
16:27
Like it's only going to receive patterns from it's synaptic. It's active synaptic connection. So inhibited connections, it's not going to receive a pattern to an inhibited synapse and what happens is if it gets three times the if it gets three micro vesicles acts, it's like six thousand neurotransmitters, that's gonna activate a lot more of its potassium channels simultaneously and that will inhibit the sound because there will inhibit the cell.
17:05
And so one act potential will inhibit its neighbors as neighboring cells. And so those cells like, you know, if they it's it's it's but it's not necessarily the same, it's gonna hibit a selection of his neighbors and but it matters a lot in terms of like not necessarily all of them because some of them might be some of them actually might not like it might.
17:44
So the thing it's like it might it that is one possibility but it's also it's also possible that the way that they're connected to another cell could instead excite another cell. So instead of like maybe they have only one synaptic connection to another cell and there's no potassium, it's just about, there's just a lot of sodium receptors and that synapse.
18:08
So in that sense, if if it's this if it's a sodium receptor synapse, then if you send a you know, I hear you know, number three, three, multivestival three, vesicles release, then that cell is going to get excited faster, but it also matters. It also matters a lot. Whether that pattern is something that speaks to that cell or not because if that cell is not looking for a pattern that involves what I'm saying is like, what pattern speaks this now is, is it sells only going to fire if if it gets enough, if it gets enough charge and the charge has to come from all of its synapses all of a sin after connections, right?
19:05
I'm sorry not. It doesn't have to come from all of them but it has to come from enough for them. So if enough of them are receiving and if enough of the sodium receptors are are active, and the sodium is is feeling up, faster than potassium is is leaving.
19:24
So, like if there's a want, if there's a one, or if the res, or if the receptors that are that are receiving aren't just like, so I didn't respect

 right on those in that synapse. And, and so, if it's, it could be like a three, a three bicycle release.
19:43
And in that sense, yes. So sodium receptors might open up faster and that just like, I don't know that it's not. It's not so relevant. It's not so relevant. I mean, yeah, I actually would be relevant. Yeah, because the rush of sodium opening would caught would cause the action potential to start faster.
20:12
And, and the rush of potassium opening would would either inhibit the cell or it would cause cell to shorten the action potential, right? And if you have at the at the frequency of of the action potential is shorter than the amplitude of its radius is going to be larger think because there's a there's a there's an inverse relationship so if the if the frequency is smaller the amplitude is larger if the amplitude is smaller, the frequencies longer or larger.
20:58
Yeah. So that would be like a longer frequency or larger frequency. I'm not sure how to how higher for, it's a higher frequenc. I think. Yeah, higher frequency. Yeah, so we're talking like hurts. So if if we're sending out so their height, so the gamma camera bursts, you know the frequencies of gamma ray of gamma vert of sorry, the gamma frequency of brainwaves because the brain can oscillate between like, 0.02 Hertz and 600 Hertz, and the high gamma burst to faceobok burst, those are high frequency births so tent.
21:39
Tonic oscillations are low frequency verse. And I'd in the idea is that to understand the oscillation the oscillations tend to, like get divided into power bands. That are they maintain a distance between themselves of like 2.17? And, and it can differ a little bit between different animal species. How exactly what?
22:09
What, you know, what defines each power band in terms of which frequencies belong? You know, it typically stays between and like theta for rabbits is different than theta for humans, right? But that, but they're still like these power bands. These power bands are like the horizontal. I mean these are like these.
22:36
These power bands are like I, you know, I think that they're probably like the be the result of of your cortical columns like the alpha in, you know, synchronizing patterns, maybe across layers. So the lowest layers, I think would be, I think they might be the lowest the lower layers might be like alphaband or just like alphaban, beta hierarchy.
23:18
Maybe even like high frequency, it would be gamma. That's what I imagine that. You gonna have a little bit more of that, I have to check. And then the the towards the, you know, the top, the at the pyramidal cell level actually, when you get into, you know, I would expect to have more delta up there and because
23:53
And because well, when you get into, because the, when you get to the thought bridges, you know, the the thalamus is like this, this Delta firing circuit, right? And it is got it's it's sort of like you want to be in the same frequency range for data data data comparability, I think like, and I think you need, I think if if we one offslider is going to be able to receive and interpret the signals of another oscillator, I think you want some sort of like frequency matching in terms of the rate of information for it just for so that there's an apples.
24:43
There's a way to compare apples to apples, right? So if you look at like basically the the book, I mean sorry if you get narrow pipe these ideas, how can we relate different sense of unstructured data like heart data and EEG data and you kind of need to, you know, figure out how to create like, create a relatable time series, right?
25:12
How to relate the time series of heart activity and and and the signals you're getting at each at each interval exactly to bring way activity by the time interval. And so if you have a way to compare like you know I got this, this heart is basically this heartbeat at the one minute mark and the brain wave at the one minute mark.
25:36
And then I got another like, you know, super big heartbeat phenomenon happening at the at the, at the one minute 52nd mark. And that exact time there was another like, really strange curious brainwave. And I am, I'm like, wondering if a correlation between this brain wave, and this, like, surprising what was happening at the time, you know, was there, there was surprise somebody.
26:01
It was, there was like a happy birthday surprise, a bunch of people came out and said, surprise, and there was, and there was a birthday party. And then that's why and it that in the right when they said surprise that was the one minute more. And then and then someone in particular came out at the one minute and 50.
26:22
Second mark that just was, it was shocking to see them because that person had been dead for three years and now they were back. Okay, that's true. Heck, just trying to create a funny surprise but and I've had dreams where I'm like, I realized I've I'm talking to someone that had passed on and, but I don't realize it right away.
26:49
It's like it's it's like my mind is trying to allow me to enjoy their presence without the horror of their presence, all right? It's like my own is like, okay, forget the part where they died and just like, you're just like talking to someone almost. If you realize you're talking someone who died like three years ago in a dream.
27:09
That's like that. Is that? I I appreciate those dreams because it reminds me of people that I've lost but they are, they are something, you know. I, I like I'm like, I hope that like that would be amazing if like, you know, someday I get to get to have a really great day experience.
27:30
And, and I meet people who, who passed on, right? That would be a wonderful thing that could, that could be a wonderful and perhaps, even like frightening, whatever frightening, DMT our ayahuasca experience. I would that be amazing? Yeah, to meet people who passed on and sort of a trip psychedelic trip.
27:53
So basically you know, fireflies are that's awesome, there's they are sending each other a bull like a bolt of energy. Basically, they're there. Like you don't think of it, I actually is is sending energy. But if you like if you like blink a light at a light receptor, you're sending something that is is is you're dissipating.
28:21
Your it's something. Oh, sounds like you're just pitting information if that makes sense. You're dissipating information. And so if one firefly is patterned stops working like either like that, firefly becomes inhibited then maybe like that it has been eaten by like a frog or something in the whole. Also a oscillation is disturbed and it's like it's I mean maybe that means it flies away really fast like if there's a swarm and they're just hanging out all of a sudden like one of them disappears, they're all gonna notice it because they were all expecting to receive a signal and exactly the same time and they and they didn't.
29:05
So it's like wow something is different. The entire oscillation nurses, the pattern. And then, yeah, cuz that that creates a disturbance in the forest basically, and then, at the same time you we have this situation where maybe one of them finds food, but now they all know it because that one that one, it bursts faster and that, that it burst out of sync and that caught that's gonna cost us.
29:36
It now has to dissipate that extra energy into the oscillator, so it has extra energy. So nothing giveaway. Some of those energy by beaming beaming it out and that triggers the other get a bugs to receive that signal and that causes them to release their energy. And this, in this point, this is the functional expression of energy.
30:00
It's like each one is releasing. It's energy as light and what's in the signal that's being received. It's weird to say that that's energy, but I guess it kind of, it's like, receiving a really little amount of energy that's increasing. It's it's voltage or something or exciting it a little bit more, but even if like it's a really subtle amount of energy, maybe what it's triggering is just just enough to trigger neural activity, right?
30:33
It's tracking a change basically. So it turns energy into receiving that receiving the energy of the photon in a sense is like is being. It's being converted into information.
30:56
Which he's like it's like the information is encoding, the pattern of energy release, right? So, it's not necessarily like it's, I'm like, I'm trying to say, well, maybe this isn't like an energy transfer but
31:29
But the inner, but there is like energy that is being spent. Both for the transmission and for receiving for like in receiving a signal some some some energy is being like spent because a signal is there's a collision and then that is causing something to move which generates a signal that starts traveling through stretch traveling through the network if that's off a cascading signal, right?
32:14
And if there's some, if there's a neuron that is specifically like receptive synaptically to that incoming signal pattern, then that's going to fire. And so now you have pattern recognition in terms of synaptic connections, right? And so the yeah, but the synaptic connections will also lead to a situation where the action potential is going to depolarize other neurons.
32:56
Cosmopolitan. It's going to have like an effective range, right?
33:08
Yeah, like it's like a, it's recept. It's gonna have a receptive range. So an effective range is like the inverse of a receptive range, right? So the neurons dendrite is its receptive field. What is paying attention to? And the neurons exit terminal is its effective range in terms of who it's speaking to.
33:35
And, of course, you know, of course, signals can travel and reverse across across the, the gap. And I'm not exactly sure yet what happens when that happens, but
33:55
Deposit neurons set fires together oscillate together. So each each oscillator is going to add a geometric effect. This is from chapter sync. So, large bundle of neurons oscillating is going to have like a like a geometric pattern of normous complexity that's going to represent. It's it's collective of observation power, graphs or resolution the larger, the oscillator.
34:23
The be more complex. It's geometric patterns could be potentially as interesting. I mean I think of that as like like a fort like a 4K screen versus any case screen like if you have a larger awesome edition than happening, then that is going to have a lot more complexity to it.
34:47
And so like when I think of the global oscillation of the brain, you know like basically like thanks to the interns and the philanthropic bridges and corpus closeum and the other major connective areas, the temporal parietal function. And so on that, there are, you know, weren't this area, and broke his area.
35:09
There are basically the default modem network, the rich clubs because of the global off because of the they ought the the way, the brain is connected globally, you know, at the perimeter cells and the six layer, like then, you know, I think of it as the global So in the book he's saying like basically like the transformation of, you know, sending a spike from one neuron to other neurons.
35:46
That it's, it's or sending, you know. Basically, having one oscillator, not the other two off layers and it the example of three oscillators like, you know, each oscillator like fills up with electricity and then fires and it distributes its energy to the other, to the other, and to go to and then eventually like they all they all like, it's like imagine that he's like imagine there's a point of energy that's moving from one oscillator to another and you know, eventually they all end up firing at exactly the same time but what happens is when two of them fire at the same time they become in sync with each other and so you know, at some point the dealt but they all become and think at the same time like you have like all three of them will like.
36:45
So a is always firing it zero. But in the into B and C are always finding it like, you know, between zero and one, right? But eventually you know be and see will both fire at zero. At the same time as a and from then onwards they will always be open always fire at zero right?
37:08
Because they've sort of like they've reached a sort of like equilibrium right where the dot is. Now it's sort of like evenly this this distributed to all three of them. He was saying that like sort of like the way I interpret, like the reason there's no bad points is like if you have a point that's never absorbed.
37:29
It's even if that point moves around as long as it's never absorbed anywhere because it's a bad point, it's as if that point doesn't exist, it's as if it's part of the architecture that the other points are moving around, and that's why the system will still reach oscillation. It's why bad points.
37:46
Don't actually have any area because they'll just they don't interfere and in that is sort of like this interesting. Because this sort of like that idea could apply to building a robust network. Like if you have if one of the network stations is inhibited there's like those automatic switch over to another network because it's it's it's like there is there's multiple different nodes in.
38:19
It's going to automatically like skip over the bad point in the situation like like the the network is set up so that if one of them goes down, the signal is automatically routed to the one that's up. So it's like checking for whether network is up for passing signal.
38:38
Positive at each, at each point when the point moves it it's a little bit more, a little bit of it is absorbed. So like a point of the point eventually gets to zero because it's been completely absorbed by the, by the whole oscillator. So it eventually reaches it's low number, when it's basically, it's energy, has been divided evenly among all oscillators, and that's sort of the point in, which they've all sort of like eaten, and they've all received energy, right?
39:11
And now, they're just like waiting for the next sort. The next source but the other basically sharing energy like whatever at whatever I have extra energy. I'm gonna like fire and I'm gonna send it. I'm gonna spike and then that's gonna send energy onwards. And so those neurons will be inhibited because they've been sort of like fit.
39:37
I mean, imagine if your neurons are like a swarm of fish, sort of like, they're all like opening their mouths, their dendritic mouths for for ATP, but then they start to fill up with charge, which is some sort of like, oh, it's it. Maybe it's symbolic of I've been on full, and I've got that ATP and now I need to release some energy.
40:04
So it difficult energy, this running environment and what it's doing then is passing on energy to another group of neurons. But that but it's information is being magnified by that oscillation it's encoding of pattern in the whole oscillator because all of the the receiving neurons are receiving. You know, it's causing it's causing cascades of energy releases in neurons.
40:31
So they're there's a, there's a physical tracking physical reaction, that is cascading throughout the, the oscillator that eventually reaches equilibrium. But but, but the equilibrium is sort of tilted, just a tiny amount, right? And you that happens enough times. And eventually with the equilibrium space changes right in those phase changes, then are going to be tracked by the default mode network.
41:06
So it's like taking it's like now, you take something big and make it small again, so you basically have the same process, you know, like you have, you're gonna have basically dendrites in synapses again. But now there, they're creating connections between the large scale patterns, right? So that the large scale patterns can basically, you know, repeat in slides like imagine, like you're playing a movie has multiple frames in each frame of the movie as one of the cortical as a pattern in a cortical column.
41:43
And you have all these cortical columns, it's your capable of playing, a lot of different frames of the movie.
41:52
And so and so the movie is it's just like it's like four dimensional matrix or tensor. It's it's time. Space space time. And this is it's like a field array sensor modalities intersecting and this in the different field arrays of your sensor modalities up being related to one another.
42:23
Right, let's say that. You're you're internal mode out modality. Interpretations of hearing are very like amplified for you. Maybe you're very like you're very into like you're acoustic way or vocal way of processing information. Like audiobooks are much easier for you than textbooks and it's like your mind is very efficient and processing audio information.
42:53
And so we have this, you know, sort of synchronization pattern. So, with LTD, I'm I'm like, you know, I'm I'm thinking that the inhibitory like, like the inhibitory process is taking the, the single the isolation of the action potential and anticipating it across the network. So, the action potential inhibits, many neurons simultaneously.
43:30
And the, this might trigger, it should trigger an eventual oscillation but it triggers the oscillation of the of the network in in stages because what happens is it's it's only an effect like the downstream field. Effect of a neuron actions actions potentials. Only in effect, the select group of downstream neurons.
44:05
So only I selected LAX group in the oscillator will be inhibited but that that it magnifies that one neurons pattern because that group is now sort of like out of oscillation for around with the rest of the neural circuit in terms of like they are be synchronized and one sense from the rest of the oscillation.
44:35
So they met they are magnifying. The there are they are and they aren't away magnifying the action potential, but magnifying it with a with a signature that's in the negative. So that it just plays with them out of step or changes the phase, but it changes the phase of a group, the group that were.
45:01
So it creates an like the the chance for a negative way. Right. And negative way that decreases the chance, is that like that pushes like the potential pattern of what is activated in another layer. It narrows the narrows down what gets activated because of because if you look at the the in the book saying they said, there's basically there's now there's no like or there could be like terrible spots or terrible points and in the network.
45:45
But they would, what's going to happen is that their location has no area because if they were a terrible point in one and one point, then the system just moves around them and if they move to another point, they're not absorbing energy when they're inhibited basically. So if it's completely inhibited that that's I think that's argument is that if the neuron is completely inhibited to the point that it's a terrible point, that it's not absorbing any thing.
46:12
Then the signal is just going to and I think the best situation would be like if the actual synopsis inhabited. So it doesn't open, right? So I'm curious that that would work. But I mean like if it's inhibit it's not gonna fire. And my question before, what I was trying to figure out well, does that mean that some other neurons would get more um more signal or via pressure like with more sodium or something?
46:44
And it relative, it doesn't doesn't make sense. So not a pressure based readers prescription and patterns, but But the but maybe that increases the likelyhood of where let's say that the signals sit at seamless are coming in. Okay, so those are coming in and they have to go somewhere.
47:15
All right? So you're increasing the likelihood. That a another neuron gets? It gets gives triggered gets. So like if, if the
47:34
If there's a chance that any neuron in the group could receive a signal that results in it getting fired. The question is, can, if you have a whole bunch of neurons, if they become awesome. Basically depressed. That means they can't fire. But does that also mean that another neuron next to them that wasn't inhabited has a greater chance of fire.
48:02
Okay? So the question is is the energy distributed sort of like everywhere evenly or is if one neuron is depressed. Does that mean other neurons around the depressed area? Are more likely to fire, right? So the depression, the question is, like, is the depression increasing the chances that other neurons require or is it part of creating, like, a sparse pattern?
48:37
So that let's say that the neuron, it does see that there's a neuron that does fire and there's just a couple others, a few of them. Like it's a sparse distributed representation and most of the neurons don't fire so well. Okay. Actually, there is an interesting way, that could be exactly what worked out, so and the neurons that don't fit.
49:00
So let's say that. Yes. So the neurons that don't fire constitute a pattern in a sense and in terms of like they're not going to be sending a signal onward. So you let's say that there's the effective field is not saying anything longer. Let's say that the combined effective field in their receptive field of of more postsynaptic neurons that that you can define a pattern, not just by what fires but also by what doesn't fire.
49:36
And so going back to spread distributed representations if you are inhibiting a lot of stuff and firing then maybe oh yes. So okay so I thought so maybe that's going to make it more likely that the neurons that are firing are going to in the next in that moment.
49:58
When those neurons are inhibited from fine, the nearest are firing might be more likely to to form a bond that make that it also tore a bond. So in a sense, the the inhibited neurons helped define which the likeliness of also tore upons for the neurons, that do fire past because there's less to, because by being inhibited, there's removing themselves from potentially being linked from potentially being farted of a pattern.
50:39
And by removing themselves, from being part of the pattern, they're helping to define a pattern. And so, in that sense, the neurons. So if a bunch of neurons inhibit that one, our inhibited by one neuron, then that is a group that is going to help define a pattern. Not in the not in the, the second layer, but in the layer beyond the second layer.
51:10
So they're helping it well actually know they're helping to define a pattern. They inhibit neurons are the same with the inhibitor ones. Are it. Let's say, for second for example let's say there's a neuron fires in there one and that causes a whole bunch of neurons and layer two to not fire, right?
51:30
But, so only a few neurons in there two and a firing, most of them are not firing, but the total sparse distributed representation to, to the the layer. That's even above the second layer and I don't know individual cortex that's before this gives the, I don't get why they skip to be three seemingly, but they go.
51:53
So, VV1 to be two to be four. And so in the third layer is V4. And if V4 is capturing a pattern, let's say this, it's like a TV screen and it's about it's about which areas of the screen are black in which areas of the screen are lit up, right?
52:16
It's a black and white TV screen which which areas have liked and which areas have bright light, okay? And so it's the neurons that fire physically in high gain that have bright light and the nerves of fire physically have low gamma of how perhaps just regular night. And then there's a fire tonic.
52:42
We have to just really like, you know, just really boring. I just like that. And it's really like, I understand uninformative, right? So, but that but didn't we have these these physic first? And these are lighting up, but they're also defining which areas of the screen are dark and the next player.
53:01
And so, the combined information pattern that translates because transferred to find the next layer, the information tied to clients the next layer, they'll say that the pattern is defined by both the spots that light up in the spots that don't light up because that ultimately, they ultimately somehow impacts the final calculation of of what is going to cause neurons in the neck start to fire in terms of like for that for each and around synapse.
53:33
In the third layer, it's going to be activated by the, by the coincidences that are below it and so it can detect. So because it's like a sparse pattern detector, right? It's looking for, really just like connections between two points that is paying attention to within within a certain frequency range, right?
53:58
And it's going to have some clarity about whether the pattern of specifically, those two points, if there's a whole bunch of other points that are inhibited. So that it's like if you reduce if you reduce representation to a few points as many, there's those less there's a reduced chance that you're going to confuse one kind of pattern with another because we have too many points buying at once.
54:23
Yeah. And so you'd need to. So yes. So the idea is to reduce the number of points that are finding simultaneously but we still have the neuron ready to basically on the tipping. Point ready to fire because it's like it's constantly moving towards autonic position of firing, right? And so you just, you just need to just the right amount.
54:48
Just the right amount of signal to a sparse, just a sparse signal, you know, with most of the signal, most of the potential signal coming into the neuron inhibited. And so just so just a sparse signal is enough to push the neuron over the taping point, a smart signal that it's very, very, very specifically one specific pattern.
55:13
With the neuron is able to proceed. That is defined by what bars and what doesn't fire and so if you have yeah, like I said, there's a problem. If you have too many things, buying the neuron may fire for a different pattern. It's not really. It's not related to one specific pattern.
55:35
That could be multiple patterns, that could trigger that neuron to fire if too many. If too many downstream nodes are activated. So I think it's really essential for your clarity for your sense of clarity for your, in terms of the you being of having a variable best pattern detection to be able to be able to have, you know, lots of your jobs and inhabited so that they basically defines like a like a short-term memory expression which is a, which is the helps that helps to find a short term memory expression I think is by having basically LTD.
56:11
So one neuron inhibits, a bunch of others, it helps to find, which sort of patterns make it to the synapses of the three and so the brain can be very selective in detecting and reacting the patterns. In fact that's the whole point of the reconfiguration of synapses in terms of like what signals they're open to listening to It depends on what connections they have and which of their synapses are active.
56:45
And but, by the same thing is, is that, that's true. I think, for the oscillator, being able to learn in variant patterns because I think that the membrane of the synapse also has to be able to learn in variant patterns because if you have a synapse, that is sort of inactivated, when you get a pattern that similar to approximately large pattern, it is possible that you got a difference to ask could fire instead as possible and different synopsis fire instead.
57:26
And that you could have a pattern. It's similar enough to to cause to create maybe internet to create maybe in an hour and analogy to the original pattern, right? So, maybe you maybe have an analogy will trigger things that are and sort of they create synaptic patterns that resemble other synaptic patterns.
57:56
It's like, that would be like an analogy could be like, you have a certain pattern sequence of firing, an inhibitions that appear to some to several downstream neurons in different ways. And that gives basically like all the external neurons are you can argue well if they're sending the same pattern wouldn't they all develop the same picture.
58:19
It's the thing is like the differences between each neuron. It's like the it's like on the one hand. They are all trying to render the same picture but because there their connections are all unique, they're all going to be rendering a different perspective on the same picture. And so that's really useful if you are physically removing around an object that's in space, in front of you to see it from different sides.
58:47
If you're, if you're brain is already like in the habit of rendering like multiple unique perspectives of an object because each of each area is sort of like receiving a different and different slightly differentiate differentiated data screen, it's like the data streams disperse, right? You have the signals come in and they trigger any ambitions.
59:18
They and the any visions help to find help to clarify, you know, they they help to amplify. It's it's it's sort of like the attention schema, right? The attention just came out. What was this thing where the brain is able to focus more clearly, on the information that's coming in because, you know, some some areas of the brain also become inhibited.
59:49
Now I have to look at, you know, whether the neuron is inhibiting neurons in the same. I think it's I think it's that, the neurons, the neuron that fires is supposed to have it, the neurons in its same receptive field, right? Like it's like they're all competing for the one who sees the signal first and the one who sees a student first is going to fire and have it all the others.
01:00:12
And so there can be focus in that sense like it's it's there enough fire is going to hear the receptive feel of the rest of the neurons or something like that. So that would imply. That at one neuron is defining that one. Entire screen. Don't know if that's the case but that sounds like that one neurons.
01:00:32
Exit terminal. Feeds back into the same layer, right? That's that is a little bit mysterious, but maybe there's like, maybe it's a situation where the exit terminals synapse, so maybe there's an epic terminal. So one, maybe one neon has synaptic outputs to it's own layer, and the next layer and the synaptic output.
01:00:58
So it's only layer, my might be inhibitory. And it's like basically mostly with potassium receptors and the synapses to layer two, might be more excited, excited for where it's it's it's it's opening more sodium channels and so that means it can, it could send basically either. Well, basically it sends it's gonna be able to send either excitation or inhibition, but that the idea here is that the excitation run inhibition would be layer based because it wants to inhibit stuff in its own layer but it wants to excite stuff in the next layer.
01:01:47
So I have to look at it, I say real quickly, the reason I think of LCD is something else related inhibition is that it's the opposite of this opposite a bit in the defense like because LTP is related to excitations and essence. There is idea that neurons that fire together become why together supplies killer again.
01:02:19
And it is about links between those acquired and that's the object process would be like things don't fire together and maybe they be in maybe at least to
01:02:38
So links that. Yeah, so this is like
01:04:35
Okay. So I mean oh man this is recording nothing from it. So I mean like the thing is like yes. So, if neurons are inhibited from firing together, then then the neurons that were inhibited, potentially their synchronization with their ones. They were firing with is is is potentially a race.
01:05:03
So they so the inhibition process has a process taking all those inhibited neurons in DC, synchronizing them from the rest of the group simultaneously. So any like synchronizations they had before are now sort of like temporary at least temporarily DC synchronized and that that of course is going to that's also going to affect the tonic oscillator because the tonic off because because in the tonic oscillation could not, you've changed all night, you've changed a small oscillation, you've moved to small oscillation out of sync with the global oscillation pattern, all right?
01:05:47
And so the principles of oscillators interaction of differentials of the interactions of oscillators the same to say now, wait a second. Now, these two oscillators have to resolve each other and to come back and sync with each other. And that process is going to eventually if that process happens enough, the the global phase data of the global oscillator, once the two ones to two different, oscillators are remarged is going to be altered.
01:06:14
And in that sense that is basically like also it's like imagine oscillator is past is is as a as a point passing between different nodes. And each time it passes to a different node. It gets absorbed by a little bit until until eventually there's no more energy to pass around because all the neurons are.
01:06:39
And that's the and that literally appliance like all the all of the neurons firing at the same time like as one is firing ahead of the others and it has it has more energy and so it throws and it throws some energy around it, knocks some other neurons and it's losing energy and every time it does that in those neurons have actually energy for a little bit but they throw it around.
01:07:03
And so eventually the energy is just evenly distributed everywhere and they're all firing at the same time but the but the fact that the so the action of inhibiting a group of neurons now makes that now makes those those neurons slower in terms of their phase relative to the global oscillator.
01:07:23
So the global oscillator now has to combine with the group of neurons that are moving slower, that is going to cause the the total oscillation to the decrease and an amount that is sort of adjusting sort of like balancing out the increase of one of one. So let's just say that, you know, the action potential fires.
01:07:58
The overall overall thing is that the action potential excite as adding in new energy to the system. And what's happening is inhibition is part of the process of the whole system, dissipating, that energy, and a cascade of activity, and the cascade of activity continues until all the neurons in that group are offsetting the same in the same, right?
01:08:26
And so if neurons, if the whole group is also getting slower than what happens is, all the rest of the neurons and then oscillation have more energy to give relatively speaking. Their charge has increased in that to relative to that, that their phase charge is increased relative to the phase charge of that inhibited group, right?
01:08:57
So that inhibit group is not passing anything on to the next group. And so that is like a bunch of neurons who's clocks have been slowed. So they're oscillations have been slowed because they didn't receive something. And so what you have, if you have a bunch of stuff that becomes inhibited, all of a sudden, as you've a bunch of clocks that gets loaded and they get slowed and reaction to something that was moving faster.
01:09:24
So it's like a phasic is a faster rate that causes a bunch of neurons to become a slope slowed by a tiny amount, right? And it's sort of shifting the spike into despite the spike in one area is become is a really fast increase of one in one neuron.
01:09:49
But it's creating it's it's it's creating a high amplitude but low, frequency a depression, a low frequency,
01:10:06
Say LTD is long-term, potentiation, and LCD is long-term, depression. It's creating a low frequency depression, but the whole oscillator is tracking that in terms of the depression depression. So, the global oscillation would still like increase.
01:10:35
And it's time in the timing of his firing unless a lot of unless. Yeah. Yeah, I think it would be because the oscillation is just dissipating. The energy from the activation and but they're still like more entered but still like with every when the neuron fires like that is pulling in energy if it does because downstream rounds are like take a break.
01:11:17
And so the rest of the system, the rest of the system is gaining energy at a faster rate. And so the rest of the system now becomes more likely to fire next. So there is an impact. So when yeah, so on balance the Well, okay. I'm trying to I was trying to say the rest of the system has more energy but but it's more like the rest of the system has more of the charge during that interval or no.
01:12:07
It's it's that the rest of the systems. Charts grows relative relatively in not because some something is being passed to them. But because their charge is going relatively because it's like they're getting an extra interval of charge versus the, the depression neurons are not getting that, they're not getting charged for that interval.
01:12:34
Or they're not passing, they're not passing charge along for that interval. All right, so the depressing rooms so that that is that means that relatively speaking is it is as if the rest of the network is getting more charged.
01:13:01
And So, because relatively the rest of network is getting more charge because it can even if it's continues to accept, charge it at that same, right? It's as if it got charge charged, this is if this is, if that, that inhibition pattern actually distributed, a charge to the rest of the network, the chart to the rest of I'm sorry.
01:13:31
Not to the rest of the network, to the rest of the oscillator. Did that my so that might?
01:13:41
Yeah, very friends. Should they actually the oscillator could could relative to the relative to the brain. The rest of the oscillator could be in a situation where it's chart, is total charges. Exactly the same or increase in. Yes. So, I'm okay. So this is when I need to get clear about, I'm wondering.
01:14:02
Okay, so maybe the LTD doesn't because yeah. It's the question is, does it does the LTD process? Is it causing the total charge to increase?
01:14:18
Or maybe it's a situation where the total charge is not increasing.
01:14:32
By the charge concentration is changing. So so the charge in certain other patterns, relative that the patterns that have inhibited, those other patterns are increasing without increasing, that's total charge of the oscillators. The total charge of the oscillator, then can stay at the same sort of at the same, the charge, can't the total charge.
01:15:09
The offsider may not change it all have part, it seems since possible. So when they're on fires and inhibits an inhibits, a larger set of neurons and they cause a charge displacement so that the rest of those need to well. So it maybe this increases the chance is that the of a cascade of a temporal cascade of firing.
01:15:43
All right, so you
01:15:54
Okay. So, but what is interesting, is that, you know, in experiments with, you know, like low frequency trains. So so they use high frequency to to high frequency stimulation to evoke long-term potentiation, right to evoke action. Potentials which have that's when you are going to have more spikes, more, high frequency spikes and it's going to create inhibitions I guess as a reaction to those bikes.
01:16:34
But when you feed the brain, a lot of low frequency trains like of electrical simulation like one hurts that that might inhibit basically inhibit short-term memories. In the sense that the low frequency is going to trigger higher amplitude, low frequency,
01:17:01
Oscillations because oh, because low frequency is like, it affects the wider area. What low frequency knows? If that are gonna affect a water area because they have a higher amplitude, you're gonna in and allow neurons to basically are going to be more likely to join up in to a single oscillator with low frequencies, and, but going from Basically, but yeah.
01:17:34
So the inhibition process and so, so going back to with the inhibition process. That comes as a result of the the action potential is going to magnify sort of like matte. It's going to innocence magnify the impact of the action potential on the oscillator, but it's an in between step between the action potential, which is it, which is a high phase, high frequency activity to the oscillation, which is a low oscillations, can be low frequency activity and the in between step, is that a set of neurons are inhibited the set of neurons that were a set of neurons that were connected that were connected to the firing order on that were inhibited to this.
01:18:33
So,
01:18:40
Okay. But yeah, I mean recent researchers like really have done have better. Have studied LTP and LL DP as like basically, you know, the high amplitude, low frequency LTD signals, basically, stimulating the brain with like, a one herbs frequency, that is going to de-synchronize groups of neurons. That is going to not be synchronized.
01:19:14
It's going to synchronize them but there's okay, so but the in between stage, so the action potential passes, like an LTD signal to a group of neurons, right? And inhibitory signal, so they become dis synchronized in a sentence, but their DC impronization. As a group is a magnification of the action, potential moment that is that's basically the attention schema mechanism and so that is it's clarifying which of the action percent is fired because it's obscuring, the ones that didn't fire first but then eventually the debt.
01:19:59
So that's like at that point that group of inhibited neurons is not at like they're just slowed down relative to the rest of oscillation but eventually that group is going to cause the rest of the oscillator to pass their phase, to pass their phases around. So and until you know so basically like the slowed down neurons are going to.
01:20:27
It's like they it's like when you so when an offset or pass passes phase around ideas phases, like a box, that gets a job a little bit, it gets passed by neurons, it gets passed by oscillators that have more to neurons that have less. And each time each of the neurons, that receives something from what is being, what's being passed to it?
01:20:52
Is going to absorb a little bit of that has been passed something and then, and then if that neuron fires, it starts, passing what it learned around. And eventually they they all are passed around this, the sort of like they're all like the same amount is distributed to all of them so that they're all like lined up temporarily temporarily.
01:21:20
Like at the point at, which all neurons are lined up so that they fire at the same time is the point in which they have distributed the that shrinking point that point it keeps getting absorbed until that that point, which is like the access energy keeps getting distributed like they fire because they're deep, they're deep polarizing to get rid of that, like sort of like energy tension.
01:21:46
Like the energy tension is like a split between positive negative and so their firing to get rid of their attention. That's about the tension. That is like yet. They're threshold has been has peaked and they're firing to get rid of it and they pass it on but they don't they only pass on a little bit and so each neuron like reaches its limit and passes on a little bit and they keep doing this until the amount that's being passed on is just going to is going to basically cause them to begin to fire and groups.
01:22:27
Like because they're just like because they all they're all like, receiving, like the same amount of energy at the same time, eventually, like like they're balances, like they're voltages, all become an alignment eventually because they keep just distributing the energy to dissipate it and until it gets like evenly absorbed by the whole oscillator.
01:22:48
And then they all, then, they're all another timing is all aligned, and not in the and they are as an oscillator. They are a sensor array that's waiting for for more and more energy to come into the oscillator from, from from the neuron is going to spike next.
01:23:14
So, after I had this idea about the
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio