b0119y ctpr
(audio transcription is difficult to parse, needs fixing, not that relevant to the book)

Oscillator Communication Protocol Grandfather
00:00
Who's better your grandfather or Jesus? When I was in kindergarten, I remember having doing comparison between my grandfather who was this and I said that he was a general, and I had this idea that relative to other people. He was, he was significant, because he had lots of awards, he'd wear his awards on his uniform.
00:27
I mean, he's, he's the only guy that I knew who had a uniform like imagine, like the only one only person in your, in your entire world that you've seen with the uniform on. So a kindergarten at that, well, my grandfather must be really important. And I also thought, well, Jesus must be really important because people are talking about Jesus, but who's more important my grandfather or Jesus.
00:55
And I was a for context. I was raised to believe that Noah's Ark was a real event and but yeah. So I so I didn't know who was greater my grandfather Jesus. And I thought, well, maybe I'll combine the two and I'll be like, both be like my grandfather, but also be like, Jesus.
01:23
That's where I, it's right thinking. Of course later on, I discovered that. Not everyone liked my grandfather and not everyone likes generals. Not everyone likes military and not everyone likes. Jesus had more haters and you know even as a small child I was I was a little bit disillusioned with the public chatter around Jesus and the and the Bible and people were saying like just imagine for a child, this really easy to understand this, you know, it's children.
02:06
We were talked to each other and and one of the other children, his name was Ryan. He said to me that and I guess he got this from one of his friends or from his dad or something. But he said, what can King Kai create a rock? So heavy that he is unable to lift it?
02:27
Because and and then we say, well God can do anything, right? So can he do something that he can't undo? And we become he's like, I guess, these are, these are the kinds of paradoxes that the smart kindergartners. Tell each other when they're trying to figure things out I guess we I remember is that was sometime between creativity.
03:00
Good actually.
03:07
But unfortunately, I had an extremely sheltered life. Okay? Unfortunately, unfortunately it could have got like, you know, whether that's fortunate or not is, is it's just a matter of it's hard to say, you know, there's a lot of a lot of unless fortunate things and there's something more fortunate things.
03:30
So maybe that's someone in the middle. I know not. Not too great. Not too bad, but I was indoctrinated in and alternate experience of reality and that I literally believed in. So, about fifth or sixth about six about about the time that I left, the sixth grade and let that school, and I was, so in the seventh grade, I started off in a public school.
03:58
So I was in private school till sixth grade and I believe no is ark was literally tour event until about sixth grade. And then seventh grade, I discovered that the West rest of the world did not actually believe Noah's Ark was real and
04:23
And and the controversy then was that actually evolution was real and it was supposed to replace our stories of creation like noises are so, so no longer. So there was a time when imagined there's a time when, when everyone around you this is my experiment. Everyone around. You insists on talking about the origin of the world.
04:56
The reason you want to talk about origin of the world and how it was created in this huge story is because they want to emphasize over and over. The fact that that, that the entire world was created by this authority figure and that's like, all you need to know that you need to know that in this culture because that is the whole reason for why you, you owe the authority figure, you're obedience, because the authority figure of history, that created the world.
05:35
If now looking after you and it's just, it's just like, but you need, it's like, yeah, let's fill you up with a reason that's going to glue you to our way of doing things. And ultimately that, I mean, what that, that results in a sort of group, cohesion, right?
06:02
And and but interestingly, the that group is it's like they're like an oscillator that the fills, the pole of the oscillator of more secular society and resistance somehow somehow they they say, okay, we're not going to be absorbed by by the general beliefs of general society. We're going to have our own sort of like religious beliefs.
06:30
That are almost intentionally in conflict, okay? Like it's like, almost like, hey, no one really. Just trying to say no one really knows what happens in history. We're all making guesses. And and and so we're just gonna go with this this thread narrative before we think happened, because, you know, when you really argue with people, it's like you cannot and this is, this was a constant experience when you when you really argue with people.
07:01
It seems like you can't convinced people to to move their position once someone starts to defending a position. You it seems like you can't get them to give it up because they becomes part of their identity. Like oh I'm the guy who defends this argument for defense that argument and then and then that person gets stuck with that argument.
07:22
It's like oh shoot the argument might continue in the future, I better get defending and better, get to depending it. And and so you have almost like a rolled play and it and you know, I think of that as is, is a sort of
07:41
That that's interesting how you know you might I'm just thinking like well what if there's different areas of the brain that are very that are very specialized and processing. Certain kinds of patterns, but to the degree that they don't, but some degree, they don't work together like play, they just don't mix.
08:00
And maybe in some cases, they could mix maybe religious and secular people could mix but
08:16
Consider it. But they but something about some, something something has to change. So, you know, oftentimes, you know, we have at least the ability for the more for the more mature people. The really the much older people and who are part of these different different, kind of different kinds of oscillating groups, different kinds of when our groups of people that see themselves.
09:02
Like, you know, I guess on the on a really macro scale, it seems like the
09:10

12:31
So I so I don't think he would have had. That was a kind of conflict. I was having but so this is just my perspective. But and the the main like takeaway was was this story and which the bite the Bible story in which the characters name was like Joshua or something.
12:55
And he started the story, made it clear that what you want to to, but the most valuable thing, but was wisdom. The thing, you should seek the most wisdom. And in my seeking wisdom, you are seeking the rock that that is that's like building your house on a rock, having a life in which your path is a sequism.
13:31
And sort of, like,
13:40
And then, and then, for some reason, Jesus was the best because he gave himself, right? Which is, which is like the idea of Satori, you know, said, you know, there's various spiritual traditions in the world and the idea that you give yourself or sacrifice yourself to save. Others ultimately is, is the idea of Satori sacrifice and and the state in the stages of wisdom could be like, again, you know, versus first stage to know yourself, and then controll yourself, and then give yourself.
14:20

And and these are I found an interesting that, you know, there's three state just like three stages of wisdom, kind of. And then there's like three stages of rhetoric that that, you know, at those pathos and logos that you can learn. So at this is about your character who you are and then path us is is the stage writer in, which you ask questions.
14:44
So, you're listening and then logos is the stage in which you're talking, but but you are, you're talking as as a combined oscillator. The two people are in an agreement. Now, we have in we've established that both people were of good character in the stage of ethos that the two or more people weren't the stage of great character and ethos.
15:11
And that that's sort of like sort of similar to a group oscillation, you know, like when the whole group is oscillating, because everyone has been verifying, but they're a good person and then we listen to to the reason why we all belong together as a group. And then we're able to collectively agree on the perspective arguments, as to why our group should continue, why our collaborations to continue why we should work together.
15:39

And and it's thought that these three stages of redirect discovered discovered but are discovered by the ancient Greeks or out or defined by the ancient Greeks. They seem to define like every conversation that we have with people. So it's always like, okay, who are you, who am I? What do you want?
15:56
What do I want? And then do we work together or not? Like we figure out the common logic. We're working together and we're not working together, how we do something together, that's the logo station. So like in every conversation we have, there's it's, as I say, it's like the ancient Greeks discovered at those paths of Augustus, because the scene is to be embedded in our conversations, socially these three phases, and these three faces seem to oscillate.

16:27
And it's interesting because you can describe the human body as and as a factor of oscillations and in our even our communications, our oscillation. And so I wonder yet. So I mean. Yeah. And then. And in addition. Yeah, this is that's I'm gonna argue that. The networking protocol is is oscillation cases.
17:02
Rather it. Yeah, it's oscillation faces how the the phase are voltage of the oscillation is changing. It's communicating that change that phase change through in an oscillatory manner to, to the rest of the isolation. So it's like it's like a neurons.
17:35
Oscillator.