b0113y ctpr
(audio transcription need fixing)
Neuron Vector Wave
00:00
Whereas Chris Kristoff cock argued in his, in his it went his books that It computers as they exist today, the monument architecture, you know, the CPU with the DPU combination, that, that by itself can could not reproduce a human consciousness, the way consciousness is it would it would take a different kind of machine.
00:35
And so one of the arguments that I'm making in this book is that we can, in fact, create human, like consciousness in software self-aware software On a regular computer. And so, the, the key the key, the key thing that the key up to create the key physics base operations of the brain that part can be simulated.
01:15
And you can, you know, if you consider the neuron as a multimodal sensor you can you can go the route of you know, building neuromorphic chips that, mimic the functions of neurons accurately enough to get to that result faster. All right, faster than avon Newman. Architecture of a CPU.
01:46
Central processing unit. All right, if you have, if you, if you designed your artificial neurons and just the right way, you could, you could get there faster in terms of like your potential performance per watt. Maybe. Because with the human brain, you have a lot of parallelism, you know, the GPU the GPU is a much more is much.
02:19
It's a lot more parallel in terms of its processing than the CPU the graphics processing unit or the TP, the tensor processing unit but the you know which I don't understand the TPU in great detail. But I've heard that it's really good at doing matrix math, which is sort of a key operation for for deep learning.
02:58
When, especially when the output of a note is the vector, right? So the having a having a sort of DP or TPU that's just sort of dedicated to matrix, math might help accelerate calculating the vectors of nodes in a deep learning model. So you know, I guess in a sense I I heard describe the neuron is calculating a vector and tensor space so tensor spaces like I'm thinking and I mean like four to four dimensional space, right?
03:41
But like I said, I say that for multiple reasons, this one is that, you know, the the the action, the accent, the axon, you know, it is going to it goes from, it goes from one point from the Soma to the, to the, to the next terminal that points that's up.
04:09
You know? It's because distributed to multiple neurons through the via the exit terminal. But, but before it gets to the external before it's split up, there is at least one point a line that, that is the, the axon itself that they actually potential travels on. And that is creating a vector in phase, space and electromagnetic, vector and phase space.
04:35
It's also creating an an acre court. Acoustatory mechanical vibration in and the same space. Because the, when actually touch of fires, the membrane physically, expands the never memory in a neuron expands like a balloon. It changes its structure. Expands like a balloon during action, potential of it. And then it, and then as the action potential passes, through each note of Ranveer, it's it's the area, the, the shape of the neuron of the neurons membrane is changing at each step.
05:17
And so, you know, that's interesting, right? That you have this and and then and the neurons. So that so we have an argument for the neurons electric event, creating a like a literal vector which is the orientation of the axon. All right, think hey, this vector happened again. Occurred again.
05:48
And and and you know, that's that's going to affect the rest of the brain. So it's interesting that that, you know, I mean potentially, it'll create a way that
06:05
You know, the rest of the brand can pinpoint collectively.
06:14
It's like, where does it? Where do they thought occur? Oh, that was the origin of that. Thought I was the one but, but then there's so that the neuron has dipole a magnetic dipole that hasn't has an orientation. And every time, the action potential event fires the orientation of that magnetic, dipole changes.
06:36
So, that's another vector. So you have, you have a vector, that's the axon firing, but then you have that, that's always this. Always the same when it fires but then you have another vector that changes every time and maybe that provides a contrast between the two vectors. Like maybe there's a, I mean, it's this, I don't, right?
06:59
There's, there's because one is, like, an electric vector, and the other ones. Imagine like a magnetic dipole vector. And the magnetic dipole is changing every time in our fires and that is going to that is that is also going to affect the electromagnetic field of how, you know, when we're talking about the what is the importance of the electromagnetic trace field?
07:34
Well, you have throughout the brain, you know, brain activity that is, that is to great to a great extent dependent upon a step where ionic ions ionic, charges are building up because of the movement of of sodium, potassium, calcium, and in chloride, and the, the, the charge, the charge build up that the increasing and decreasing charges they are.
08:31
They're all like, these are electromagnetic events, right? These are electromagnetic states and the place field is electromagnetism. So if the diet is in a magnetic dipole at the neuron scale changes that affects the the arrangement that of, that affects the total arrangement of charges and the brain. So that could be like the tipping point between, you know, too much ionic charge being in one and in one part of the brain, that that triggers a, some threshold firing for, for some neurons, and triggers a shift in your brain's thinking, right?
09:29
So, the orientation of that magnetic dipole in a neuron could shift your thinking,
09:41
In terms of, in terms of how it affects the rest of the electromagnetic field of your brain, right? And so it actually could, it could represent your current, it could part of your current thinking and but so could the other modalities of signals, right? They are the acoustic waves and the the ionic charge charges built up.
10:15
Like the mechanical wave this now, the mechanical wave, I think becomes an acoustic wave in the synapse, right? Because it's I mean mechanical, waves can
10:33
Share, I don't know if it's maybe it's I want to say it's like a mechanical wave in an acoustical wave at the same time, but specifically, it's, it's an information carrying way or it carries a face. It's very specific phase frequency plant it's it's that stays consistent across its journey because because in a essay it probably stays consistent and process during it and that would be us all on wave likely likely it's all toned away.
11:06
So big, but the importance of it being consistent across the journey is that the the brain needs to communicate in terms of faces?
11:30
But yeah. So, like, you know, I I'm personally interested to find out if the microtubule is one of the mechanisms of, of memory, I would say, the only like, maybe perhaps the acoustic or sultan wave mechanism of memory. But I'm also interested to find out if
12:01
You know, because it's because the market because you know, area that we can have, you know, several different different modalities for memories simultaneously. Is that I mean, that I guess for attention provides for a great, great redundancy in the detection of information. If you have this sort of like trifecta, I've synergy that correlation information across physical domains simultaneously.
12:38
I mean, that seems like that's a very robust solution that defies your brain being confused. By one domain or another right? That way. That would sort of like clarify. I'm certainties that level of robustness where you have, like basically like a trinity of signals. That's interesting.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio