b0110y ctpr
(audio) 
Synapses Neuron Oscillator
00:02
So it's really, it's really weird that we have a situation where the you have to look at the, the synaptic connections work. Like, okay. So imagine that's what's happening, is that this synaptic connections that are inhibited, right? So, let's say that you have front. Let's say that basically, the synaptic connections that a neuron has in its end, right?
00:35
Represent the potential points where new signals can come from. Okay. And so, the reason that the dendrite is able to store a pattern is because the connections that are
00:56
That that exist or don't exist shape part of the patient. The dimensional scope, the potential dimensional scope of the pattern that gets the and that is then imprinted by the fractional presence of the synapses that are not inhibited, from not an inhabited, not an inhibited state or they're in autonomously.
01:29
Or is there a basic state? I want a two favorite states. I guess. I don't know if they have two kids. It says, but but there but they're not firing and they're an actually don't know. Yeah, I don't know. So they're not firing, they're not firing a lot, maybe they don't have.
01:48
I don't know if they have a chronic state. I mean, it could be I, you know, maybe they just have, like, firing or not firing state, I don't know. But so that's something I look up. But the idea is that so like I just had this picture in my mind that each synapse represents a, you can either represent a different neuron or, you know, I guess.
02:14
I guess there could be multiple synapses between two neurons. I guess I don't know, but but in at least one sense, it represents different neurons. So like Easton apps represents different neurons, right? And but also represents the pattern. It represents a spatial pattern like which it's like a line recognition right system and the way it can be a line recognition system is that as it changes, it becomes more receptive to some patterns and less perceptive to other patterns.
02:53
So for example, it's if you have three, if you have three, let's say it's connected to six neurons. But but with six synapses now let's say that three of the synapses are inhibited from firing so they can't fire but the neurons connected via those synapses they fire and now they can't send a signal so there so that's it.
03:17
So that pattern is effectively ignored. Okay. So in that sense a single neuron through. It's it's it's the number of synapses, in the status of its synapses, a single neuron can basically be configured to only fire when it receives certain patterns and the rest of the time. It's not going to fire.
03:48
Because those patterns that it's not configured to be checked. Basically, they can't get through because those or they can't get through where they can't get or they can only get partially through right? Because maybe like, only part of the pattern could make it through because because, you know, maybe one of the inhibited synapses is now firing now in a fire and a ready state again.
04:20
So maybe I later point signals can't get through and so or a partial pattern here and but basically that establishes, the dentistry as a pattern recognition machine. Holy shit. So the dendrite can recognize patterns and as the synapses change, the patterns at the dendrite recognizes I think. So the dent, right?
04:46
Can look for patterns that are basically defined in terms of space and because of like which which nodes lit up and patterns that are defined in time and in that allows basically my frequency and and the patterns are also defined by amplitude because the the low frequency patterns have higher amplitude.
05:30
That's a like it's like a dimensional characteristic, right? But that's the amplitude is important for, for setting, for setting oscillations, right? For neurons that are that sort of set the timing, it creates neurons that, that, that can oscillate together, that's part of the mechanism part. One of the attractors of the mechanism of a group of groove, oscillations.
06:07
And then. So when you have group oscillation, effectively, the group can recognize patterns. Because now the patterns are, you know, when they're on fire is like expressed to a whole selection, a whole area, right? And and that means that you have basically but it's what you choose to focus on and driven by memory configurations.
06:53
And so you're not going to see, you're not going to see patterns.
07:04
If you're, if you receptive field isn't open to them and you might see parts of patterns but thankfully, the invariant learning.
07:22
And so it apparently, the invariant learning is it's going to make it possible for or like, if you have one. So once so if one synapses inhibited, then that might send more sigmoor signal to another synapse, so like imagine it like this. Okay, if if you have two channels and they go to two cows, right?
07:57
If both synapses are open and you know, and actually it's a part of the extra terminal. So one neuron fires, it both synapses are open and then half didn't have the signal, is divided between those two externals, okay? But if one of the external is this blocked or in basically inhibited, then all of the signals have to go to to this synapse.
08:26
That is open and so that. So now that's enough. It is open is going to be supercharged and there's going to be like and so the dentist the dentist. Yeah. So, that is it that? It's curious because here's the thing is, is
08:55
I was going to try to make an argument that maybe the the exit terminal would send a bigger signal down. The the want that down the ones in apps if the other 10 apps was blocked. But here's the thing is like, so what's being sent across the synaptic cleft is is a neurotransmitter that's triggering the opening of a channel.
09:23
So that more signals can pass through. So, the idea is that if a
09:46
Is that maybe the same number of receptors would would would land everywhere and that's like that's sort of like and whether they open up a synapse or not, I could be irrelevant. Like in terms of the, their channel, the channel either opens or doesn't, but it's not going to open more open longer.
10:20
If another channel doesn't open. It's not like it's it may not be like a pressure, like a pressurized system and turn in and access because and that's like the key to the fact that
10:39
That's key to the fact that it's not a pressurized system, but it's like
10:51
Yes. So I'm just imagining like like the sort of like either pushed or vacuumed the neurotransmitters, even pushed your back into the other side and they just collected the other side for, for a minute, they activate, whatever they touch and they come straight back and that there's no like variation and synaptic channel activity.
11:08
That's, that's based upon. They're being too many. They're being like. If, if you have, if you have two multibel, it's if you have a multibilly in that is exactly the same as the next multi-bestical release. Then basically the distribution of neurotransmitters on the postsynaptic membrane is is going to be top of the topographically similar and so there's no there's no pressure that is being created.
11:48
For those sin is to to move somewhere because ultimately maybe for those neurotransmitters to move somewhere because ultimately, there's no transmitters are are either going to be us. They're basically going to either be pulled back into the transmitting neuron, during the reset cycle, reset face of the cycle or their, or they're going to be swept away.
12:17
And and in other process. But but they wouldn't. Yes. So, the only way that the receptor is going to, the receptor side is going to be receiving, going to be recognizing patterns to see. So here, you're saying. So now, now I have there's a good explanation for how the Denver is recognizing patterns.
12:44
And then how the genre is transmitting. Patterns is basically phases that can be like a phase with zero and inhibitor. And inhibited neuron is going to send the phase that has zero vesicles. But because the rest of the election, like neurosurgeon, because that neuron and every other neuron in in that receptive field is going to is going to be expecting a tonically firing neuron, which is like, which is one, multivestival release.
13:24
Then we have a situation where they're going, where the, that neuron and every other neuron in the receptor field there. It's gonna notice if there's if there's one of the oscillating neurons is inhibited. It's gonna notice because it because that because of the principles of how oscillators work basically.
13:46
And so we have to so we have to god. Dammit. No. Imagine that the branch that the oscillations of reality from small scale atoms to large scale of galaxies that they can be thought of as having a practical form, like a tree where the branches, because of the nature of oscillators to attract one another.
14:12
The branches would form. Like chains read have like smaller, spheres orbiting, larger spheres, and smaller objects, orbiting larger objects. So, you could have moons orbiting planets or planets orbiting stars or stars over orbiting the galaxy or, you know, the cloud you could have, you know, the horizon of a black hole and everything falling into the horizon, sort of orbiting the black hole on its way in.
14:50
I don't know, actually I'm not sure if I'm not clear. If that is like, considered an orbit, if the price of the black holes in orbit are not right. Can you because it possible to orbit a black hole? Is that what the horizon is very? Is it orbiting as an interesting idea but the idea is like, okay?
15:15
So like if you imagine if you imagine you know, if you go from this order of you have a big oscillator, followed by a smaller oscillator followed by a smaller oscillator and then you look at human beings. This is also can also fractals oscillating, you know, fractals because it goes down human beings.
15:34
And then and then, you know, our narrow circuits neurons. And then the, the the chart and charged the ions charge atoms. The ions, the, the, the electrons. You know what, we can. The describing the electron is as an attractor in an oscillator sort of or just one point of an at one point in an oscillating and in the in the fabric of space-time oscillating, that's I like to imagine it.
16:15
Electrons are the literal fabric of space-time also oscillating between having a physician and having a velocity or something like that. It's in some way. The the idea is that space time is, is can't. It is. It's the fundamental isolation is is undecidability or yeah, like, undecided ability, or it just can't decide what state it wants to be it, like, do I exist or do I not exist?
17:00
It's sort of thing like because the universe can't decide it it oscillates between existing and not existing, in a sense and that oscillation creates an oscillation cascade which creates space time because the each of the, because from the first oscillate, the for the first oscillation to the multiplication of oscillations, the fractalization of space time is growing and so space time, appears to expand, but it's expanding relative to the oscillators, but since human beings are oscillators hemolytes trees.
17:45
Like, if you look at a tree, the tree over time, has this the truck grows one minute of the time and then the branches grow. And then there is a but it's not like it's not like half the tree grows at a time and then the other half grows, the temporal progression.
18:08
Is this sort of like oscillation we're all the holes bottom surface area of the tree on the certain axis is growing simultaneously. So the plant is like growing up out of the ground and but it has a diameter. So we ended and did diameter is basically a cylinder that starts branching off into different branches later on.
18:35
Once the stem has grown and but but each like each interval growth, maybe it's a day. Long interval is like it's like a circle grew on the tree. Like as I grow, it's like a wadding, another circle, every day in the circle is like turns into a cone and it comes as the branch, right?
18:58
So, the tree there's, there's, you know, a circle is, like, I'm just like, imagining like an oscillator as like a circle and a sense, and many oscillators being aligned is like a tree branch, right? And so we go from the, you know, well basically big stars to people and the progression of the evolution of the universe.
19:20
But what we're seeing is that we're that we're all part of the branches of a great, oscillatory tree and at and at the same time that. So basically that wouldn't mean what that means. So is that as a human being you are like the branch of a tree your branch of the tree of the the oscillating fractal universe, right?
19:45
You're the end points of the universe and so it's like saying that where consciousness begins. It's, it's like saying that if I saying that only in the sense that you you are the universe. You're not seven from me, just like a branch of the universe. In that sense, the universe is conscious and your brain represents the conscious dissipated system that is the universe.
20:20
So in that sense, you are the universe and effect, and in the same sense, you've authored your own personal reality, you're you're the reflection of your mind has. And, and that, and that means that your reflection essentially, but wrote the narrative that defines reality for you, but that is basically a accomplished through the The, the movement of physical things finished based system movement of of ions electrical charges magnetic.
21:14
So I I think that there's there could be room to argue for that. The action. Potential is longitudinal, electromagnetic wave, possibly both electric and electric monitor wave and a magnetic long suit away like in in both with with effects in both.
21:48
Graphs and both fields, right? So maybe the neuron a simultaneously effecting the electric field in the magnetic field with a single action potential. As an edit the same time it's creating a lot. Ice. Creating a, a longitude and all Salaton where with its all-time sound wave with its that with its, but the solitude sound wave like reverberates down into the microtubule so that you can have and acoustical memory system.
22:47
In addition to the the memories it basically, the acoustical, the acoustical memory system might allow for eyes like really super long time. Memories that are stored acoustically in the microtubule and retrieve acoustically. And what they would do is because the microtubule sits inside the synapse, what they would do is potentially deactivate a synapse, inhibit it schedule it to be ready to fire.
23:36
Like there's different possible ways that the microtubule can possibly also store magnetic patterns. Magnetic gratitude on waves. And you know, who knows about what a microtubule can do with an electric magnetic wave? I don't know, was it? I like electromagnet and electric wanted to turn away, but but that would be interesting.
24:09
If all three could be stored in a microtubule for long distance, memories. And then an idea is that the, the, the typical like method of long-term memory is still going to be face. Basically, you know, whether it's the, it's the, if the patterns that appear to the dentistry that allowed Android to respond to only specific patterns, right?
24:48
So that's where long-term memory is going to be stored in. Short-term memory is like you know some of this in apps has become temporarily inhibited, right? And that's that's where you can have like short-term memory you government. You'll remember something in a neural circuit until, you know, for a certain interval or certain time interval and then yeah.
25:19
And so that allows. But anyway, But there are, but there, but there are, but the idea is that there's going to be multiple neurons, that can basically, they can get to a point where they are Most of them are gonna get to a point where shit
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio
