b0116y ctpr
(audio transcription needs fixing)
The natural selection of spacetime Wave Oscillation
00:00
So is a is a neuron, he's a resonating with
00:14
With other neurons. And in the electricity expecter, I mean, is it can we can we interpret the electromagnetic exchanges? Specifically, the electric ones and separately later on, we'll consider the magnetic ones.
00:42
And the we'll have to consider, I mean. So actually what's interesting is like The difference between electricity and magnetism like electricities. I think it's I think it's like, okay, so maybe it's an analogy of the spike and the, which is high frequency, low amplitude, and maybe electromagnetism is like an analogy of the oscillation of the tonic firing pattern versus like higher amplitude.
01:28
But low frequency. So I'm interested in financing but I also want to know if the if the way form the action potential is is characteristic of and information containing electrical pattern such as such as a soliton wave that would contain a wave shape. That could convey a tone, right?
02:09
Like a tone, like an, like, like an art, like expect the component of audio, right? So music, he could music is as a pattern played out in Sonic waves, right? So in the brain, we have the soliton transmission of three kinds of waves vibrational or mechanical waves. Magnetic, waves.
02:40
And electric waves, and all three of those types of ways appeared to be trans appear to be solid on wave transmission, right? Or information containing waves.
03:04
So, their information containing because they have distinct. Distinct tempo. Spatial frequency characteristics. As if the four dimensional temple, spatial frequency is being transmitted.
03:36
That is basically acknowledged by then by then dendritic functions. So I want to combine combine like, imagine a neuron, that is basically a combined has, that's the basically, every like the neuron is a sensor with a memory with the transmitter and it's sensing remembering and transmitting, three, three different modalities of waves simultaneously.
04:21
So, there's an electric soluton wave, which is, which is generated by the action potential, like all three events are generated by the action potential. If you notice that the shape of the synapse seems to have acoustic properties, right? The bhutan seems to have a coastal properties for transmitting and receiving signals for sending waves across the junction gap.
04:52
Through the fluids in between. So you have, but, you know, you have to send, but here's the thing, it's like you. So the electricity is going to move a lot faster, potentially, then the other ways but the electricity also gets kind of slowed down by the fact that it has to go through the chemical process of is the cat.
05:25
There's a chemical delay and transfer and transferring the electrical solid arms. So, what I'm proposing is that, so the mechanical solutions are gonna translate our measles scale pattern, so basically sends the vibration it, so at the synapse, it translates the bite the the resonation, the, the residents of the neuron.
05:52
It transmits that. As a think of it as a sim is similar to an acoustical wave pattern. But just defined by electromagnetism and it's like a, it's an acoustic. It's like it's imaginary is an acoustical wave pattern that can define any kind of data, like I said, like sound wave, or or lightweights.
06:23
And the same thing is like okay so then the action potential is defined by the shape of the dendrite but the shape of the dendrite includes which synapses are connected to which other neurons which synapses are active and when those synapses fired so that like that sort of like the event, the temporal and spatial event sequence of the branches of the synapses combined defines the shape of the electric soliton.
06:59
And then that becomes so that then gets divided by the the branches of the exit terminal. And so that potentially becomes like fractalize. So what I'm saying is like imagine that you have this convergence so you have, you have the electric signals can converging into you have disparate you that you have basically.
07:40
The neuron makes an image, makes it takes all these dendritic signals and makes an image out of them or sound out of them. But by translating temple electromagnetic patterns into a single electrical wave. That is that his trance that is transmitted over the body of a single neuron. And then what might happen is that the external it when it divides that that that way it's basically making a lot of copies of that waste pattern that temple space away pattern and each copy is like a little fractal, mini copy.
08:33
So, it's like it's like it. It's demagnifying or shrinking. Representation a four-dimensional representational pattern into from a big action potential into a something that is carried by a neurotransmitter, I'm just like, just like, I'm imagining how that could seem but at the very edge at the very least that like so the production of a specific electric waveform would, at least allow a neuron to pass along that sort of analog way form to the next neuron and but so, in terms of signal transmission in terms of synapses.
09:39
So, so there's the, there's the mechanical waveform. And then the magnetic, obviously, you know, the magnetic fields the electromagnetic fields is being is, it's the charges are being displayed, which is causing differences to happen. It's causing differences to happen. And that's another, it's another thing is that, you know basically you know I got really into like Buddhist ideas, thanks to the law of attraction movement, the law of attraction movement, I got into Buddhist ideas and that and also the matrix films.
10:29
So, the matrix film and the law of attraction movement, and I that really like drew me into studying
10:41
The experiential side of being this. And what what what what I'm what I think, you know what, I think. I love the sort of analogy that beyond the thinking mind there's no distinction. That the mind knows that every thought is essentially a distinction that divides with the, the whole, the hole on the individual, whole lot of reality into parts.
11:20
Anytime, there's any thought that makes a distinction between light and dark or any kind of distinction between red and blue between this thought. And no thought routine between yeah between any thought. And and and and any other thought, like any kind of distinction at all or any kind of awareness at all, is a division of of space.
11:48
It's a division of, it's a distinction of space space time, and that is a division of space time. Mechanically speak. There is a difference that is being noticed because if no difference was noticed, then nothing would be noticed. They would you would if there were no difference to notice, then there would be nothing, you know.
12:25
There'd be no awareness. And so that idea is that at the root of it, the brain has to be able to, at the very least, create distinctions and that that's, that is why basically, you know, people who argue that, you know, resonance the resonant theory of the mind. The problem with the resonance theory of the minds, it's it's not that
12:58
It's like, okay, there are residents, there are residents, have residents is an event that happens everywhere, including in your mind. Let's redness theory of the mind is, it's imagining that that consciousness is, is sort of caused by my synchronization or integration or integrated synchronization. It's like integrated synchronization theory, but it's all like a site.
13:37
Like, it's all like this excitedtory network. That's just polling things together and combining things. It's all convergence. And and there's no, it's sort of lacking the, the quote, the the polar mechanism, which is, you know, it's all convergence and coherence and combination and integrated information there. I mean, it's like there is there is an important role for for this integrated theory or decoherence or there.
14:26
All right. Or basically like it's interesting that they picked the word resonance between. But but you need at this, you need like an order for information to have a pattern that has to be the same. Since it synchronization is is merging and erasing, some distinctions, the more synchronization that happens.
14:54
The more awareness disappears, the more advantages, the more contextual relevance, the more, the more. I'm how did I get on this side? Oops. The more contextual relevant relevance. That has it debates your it, deletes it, the debate, the divisions. Inhibitions the the negative helps to make to add details to the patterns that you see.
15:40
So that there is a growing awareness if you have if you have a brain that is where synchronization is being constantly disrupted, you have a brain because you have like you have it's it's only by encoding the synchronized pattern with destructions. Does that? Is that carrier of synchronization, which can thought be thought of as the as container of a soliton.
16:18
Way, the of an, or the container of information. So, so
16:29
So yes, so the so a brains. A brain produces like a global soluton wave pattern. A four-dimensional global solitude wave pattern that inside and it produces this inside, a God damn it. I just think, well, like some space so I can fucking record myself. Let's go back there.
17:17
Mathematician who wrote sink describes. A basically, the entire human being as a fractal of oscillation. And and it's I've for a long time before I even read this book. I've been thinking of FaceTime as as a fractal of verdicts and I you know we're dissipative systems like Vort like like a galaxy.
17:52
Looks like a vortex. A hurricane. Looks like a vortex and atom looks like a vortex. I didn't realize that vortex is which include, you know, human cells. Human cells are vortexes inside. Vortexes with vortex is beside those vortexes. It's like a practical vortexes, but oscillation but of vortex is an oscillation and an oscillation is the vortex.
18:24
In terms of like there is a repeating cichlid pattern there's a there's a cycling pattern that has a temp. Is it a temple? Resonance or temporal oscillation? Yeah. So resonance is the decaying oscillator, right? Instead of a continuing oscillator, but the very, but, but the oscillator itself is, is even even in resonation?
18:57
It's when it's or when it's decaying, it is cycling through the same sort of fractal pattern from the large scale, when it peaks to increasingly smaller scales that signal. It is shrinking. In magnitude shrinking, an amplification and frequency. But maintaining its shape is this until it until it dissipates.
19:28
And so an oscillation can maintain a shape until it dissipates even if it even if it's frequency increases and it's amplitude, decreases or it's amplitude increases in its frequency decreases and I kind of think of like yes. So, if we could think of particles as being space itself, like space being like the large scale version of articles, but it exists as the both particles and spacing because frequencies between intervals, between the intervals of oscillators either continuing continuing or resonating away dissipating.
20:34
So if you have a dissipated system, the oscillation doesn't resonate away. Its like but yeah I think of you know like something that is expanding contracting and that is the expansion contractions.
21:05
You know, our creating
21:13
Isolatory movements at the most fundamental scale. So yeah I so I think a space is like it's something that is at the most fundamental scale. It's randomly expanding and contracting, creating us, creating the fundamental oscillations of space time. And so we, so we are so right? I right now I am one with space time.
21:47
We all are in terms of like I am what space time looks like at some point during its folding process. And it's a floating process that has amazing organization. So I'm saying like it starts out in a at the most fundamental level in a sort of like rent, like a the most at one end of what, one end of the spectrum.
22:19
It's it's a completely random. It's it's random sort of thing. Like, you know, I'm talking about like uncertain, like the uncertainty hypothesis, right? You can only see the quantum, the, the particle jiggles, because it can it because you can either see it's momentum or it's positioned but not both at the same time.
22:52
So has to constantly alternate between states. It's it's a it's physically uncertain what it wants to be and the uncertainty principle applies to basically all of space time creating micro oscillations.
23:16
But then, what happens is these, these oscillations serve as a tractors to attractors that are that are sort of like having random encounters with with each other. And and so, but tractors. Like a tractor is is and it's like an event that that is going to continue to oscillation but like but there but they're attracters in a different way, they're like attracting other oscillators, they're attracting other particles or tracking electrons they have and they're doing it.
24:03
They're the attraction is being caused in a mechanical way because the interaction of one oscillator with another is causing we have reaction like a reaction where it's like it's so forces have collided in space and they balance off each other. There's this reaction to space folding and then hitting itself.
24:34
So it bounces off itself with these folds because they because they have like they pull each other together because they're oscillators and oscillators attract. And so everything in space clumps together and you get rocks and you get gases and you get stars and you get every possible autonomic creation, you know, long enough timeline and in which the universe is able to sort of follow the physics, the basically a kind and natural selection for physics.
25:11
So there's so, you know, evolution is the natural selection of life, the pat, the the process of natural session for life. But there's also scientists who've shared a theory that there's a natural selection for physics and that doesn't that there's there's there's a lot of it's that's a good idea and there's a lot of easy examples, right?
25:34
Like the fact that most of the most of the chemicals that that we have here on earth, including our own bodies, were made in stars like the universe started out with like a lot of hydrogen and helium but not much else. And so, the University went through phases of physics based natural selection where, where events at the quantum scale,
26:12
Sort of became certain sort of went from being the. So there was a transition from the complexity of what was happening at the molecular scale or at the atomic scale to the molecular scale to the chemical scale. Like there are there's transition phases and the timeline where the organization of of oscillators into increasingly complex structures up until you know human life.
26:44
And the present moment which is the human life is still like continuation of the same natural selection of the cosmos itself. And it's sort of like it's so I'm like yeah so I'm thinking yes in a way space time emerged everywhere at once simultaneously but there's nothing from there's nothing that's that is going to fundamentally prevent.
27:24
The continual sort of natural selection of space time. The natural selection of space-time should be the chapter.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio