b0129y ctpr
(audio note transcription needs edits & fixes)
Neocortex Brain Oscillators
00:00
I think that the enormous size and shape of the human neocortex, is what gives rise to speech to complex, human speech. And that's the main I think that's the main difference is the complexity of human speech. Which reflects a higher resolution of of reality rendering. All right, so a dog has a new cortex and is capable of some making sounds and understanding words.
00:37
Like, some dogs have understood 150 words of I've heard. And you know, they don't have the it the question is like if you could give vocal cords to to a dog it doesn't have these speech areas that that our associated with human speech. But,
01:10
I think that even if you could somehow create like an external brain to just sort of create speech areas for the dog, like What would that involve? I'm exactly. I mean, So I think that basically the size and scale and organizational properties have. The neocortex are sort of able to, you know, establish patterns from essentially four dimensional fields.
01:58
Point fields actually sorry. Phase fields and the
02:15
The networking conversions points along with the oscillatory, convergences, the power band, convergences and other electromagnetic and chemical magnetic, and electrical conversions, and vibrational convergences. And like even the idea that, you know what, the, you know, maybe some acoustics, some mechanical, and some molecule magnetic, where's my reverberate off of the, the school back towards the center, areas of the brain and that, that by itself could be a sort of a tractor that binds together.
03:04
Information is long as all we have to do to verify whether that is is not only happening by significant is to verify, I mean, to verify whether or not that significant if it's happening. Is to verify that that it's able to adjust, or update, or interfere or push or physically interact with the and or influence the activity of the magnetic or electric dipole in such a way that we can track and isolate the that it is a pattern.
03:51
It's actually influencing that. And it's first of all, and second of all that we can show that neuronal assembly is or individual neurons actually have a method neuron or assembly and individual nerves, have a method of detecting, the face changes caused by the Large scale. Electromagnetic, differential events. Sorry.
04:21
But it, but it but in essence like, ideally the whole whole brain is able to track to as a single system coordinately track, all of the temple, spatial events in all areas of the brain. And I would think that basically, like, you know, we're gonna have areas of the brain that like like when I think of when I think I'm feeling feelings from the lower brain from a brain stem, I can picture.
04:59
I have this mental map of where those feelings are coming from and their characteristic characteristically different in terms of their phase representation. It's more of like a slow face pattern coming crazy, serious. Sequences patterns coming from different areas of the old brain. And I sort of like am just I think playing with internal representations trying to figure out what it trying to figure out if if this sort of like vaginas of certain kinds of feelings, sort of like, lack of precision and spatial details like feeling doesn't look like a chair.
05:52
It's got this sort of like for me. Like something that's like a deeper emotion. Has a broader lower frequency higher amplitude feeling to it. Maybe it's coming over later, making it a large, oscillator making it because not only can small oscillators make shifts but large oscillators can. So by other large oscillators, So that's interesting.
06:26
I think minutute chefs it could be. I mean, I guess I guess it's possible. It's not super clear to me at how, but I guess it's possible that oscillators could be perceptive of, not only of action of the main action, potential event. But also of back firing action. Potentials then did it.
07:05
Dendritic originating action, potentials that are generated originating, actually potentials and I don't know, maybe synaptic everything that's threshold events, maybe the oscillator can actually sort of absorb and learn that. And so. And but the levels of detail for representation of patterns on different scales, ought to be ought to have some sort of representation.
07:53
I think maybe is something that's a lot more like of us. Ghostly feeling like a really really us subtle texture like dust right. Like, imagine that when you are sensing the percent apps inspiring on your dense rights, it's like feeling pixie dust being sprinkled on here. It's like me, it's like feeling smoke.
08:34
It's like feeling something super light and airy because it's a lot of like really tiny spotty patterns with that could potentially be interpreted as having a distance between each of those patterns, not necessarily is distances, sort of like a
09:04
Rendering.
09:10
In terms of how the brain understands distances.
09:17
It's not that case that because pattern manager and learned patterns are scale and variant and
09:32
Let's see.
09:43
Who put the boxes others years? Okay. Great.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio