b0122y  ctpr
(audio transcription needs fixing)
Scale Quantum Scale Birds Column
00:00
So I I could use, I can use the sort of like the the intro quote and from the quantum physicist to then sort of like be a segue into explaining why I think orc or is incorrect. White could be incorrect but even if it's not incorrect why it doesn't change the rest of this book.
00:37
The rest of this book is still going to be true regardless of whether or is true or not, true or wouldn't change the addition of quantum. Computations would not change how the brain functions at the classical scale. It might it it's possible, it's not impossible, that, that there could be some, some sort of signal received from a microtubule that could, that could be the tipping point.
01:09
But I expect that the the actual effect of signals from the microtubules will be too small to to meaning meaningfully contribute to a change in the voltage membrane that would cause an action potential. I mean, it could be that there's some, you know, if you basically consider the the brain as a fractal, then then the argument would be that what's happening at the thalamic level, at the cortical, column level in the neocortex, what's happening?
01:53
That's to be the meso scale level. What's happening in each cortical column. And with each neuron, this this is a. So the cortical column itself is a methyl scale. All the cortical columns and the thalamus is the macroscale and the individend level is the microscale that the dendrite to the DT MVR level, is the microscale, what's happening.
02:24
And then in theory, there could be another, there could be a quantum scale fractal in the microtubule.
02:35
And put on top. So that I mean I'm I mean I guess like I mean I guess it's it's possible I but it wouldn't change what's happening in terms of like at the same pattern is repeatingly. At the, at least we have three different scales of so potential pattern.
03:03
Activity in the brain, we have the the thalamic thalamic scale, column scale. Actually, you know, we've got four different scales. So we've got the neural neural circuit court. We have horizontal scale, horizontal neural circuit scale, and then we have the sort of like atomic and dendritic scale. Fractal. Isolation memory system.
03:37
Cracked oscillation memory system and with and action to perception action.
04:00
Prediction system action prediction system. A fractal, pretty more back factor. So in that practical possibility yeah she's like pretty much. All right. Now. Fractal. Oscillatory fractal. Oscillatory, action prediction memory system fractal. Also towards action prediction memory system and necessary introduction of the system track. Now, it tracks tracks oscillations between actions and sensory inputs.
05:08
With this understanding, we can, we can better create of the this better understanding of the drone old protocols. We can that I first talked about in that our latest podcast. But you know, what is the, what is, what is the protocol of if the brain is like a network?
05:31
What is the networking protocol? I asked that in the nearly podcasts. And if the thing is like, if this is the, if this is the networking protocol to bring that I'm describing here, then we should be able to use this to basically make new kinds of. Basically, we could make like artificial eyes that can basically capture even more of the light spectrum.
06:01
We could make our artificial nose implants that have a much bigger range of odors that can capture things. That humans being is currently cannot smell. And you know, you could create a you I mean, you could you could you think of these as replacements for your existing nose and eyes and ears and touch, like you could replace an arm, you have a new press prosthetic that can touch with a level of detail.
06:41
And resolution, that is, you know, takes advantage of what lizards have developed. What geckos have developed, you know, in terms of being able to sense very precise details and that that means that like, you know, like lizards like geckos that scale walls. Like they have to. They've very sensitive tactile receptors on their hands because they need to to grip services vertically and upside down it is very much a world with a lot of tactile synthesis for the brain of it.
07:27
I guess. I don't know you know actually if they're the brains are so small it's it's kind of weird. The idea that they're the touch might be higher resolution than our time. I guess could make sense if touch was really like the dominant sort of like, activity in the brain.
07:45
Maybe so yeah so the hypothesis like so but then okay, so the question, right? Because birds have incredibly sharp vision and I don't know if I mean it's hard it's hard to say if bird vision is sharper than human vision, like why it started the human vision. If the birds brain is a lot smaller.
08:22
I mean, maybe the birds brain is has a better organization for scaling images between large and small. And so it's it's if you're flying around in space, that means that everything around you is relatively speaking changing its scale and much faster in potentially more frightening way if you if you're flying what and you suddenly fall asleep and you hit the ground really hard you could die right?
09:04
But flying also like you know sometimes you could fly straight into a pole and birds do this. We've seen this happen. You see a bird fly straight into something like a fly. Greatly one of the one example is they think that that windows are sometimes passageways? So birds sometimes fly straight into windows because they don't realize that glasses there.
09:30
So that actually could be an example that the resolution of a bird's vision might be sort of driven by necessity. So because site has such a great or important for things that fly. Then the, the vision the venison is going to potentially
10:08
Have more connections and what I would expect I guess looking at a bird's neurology if this what what I could expect is it, maybe there's a greater amount of connections and it's visual cortex like a much greater amount of connections and that there's also like a lot more activity in terms of, you know, you know, when birds sleep, in terms of them having a dreams that are of a visual nature designed to basically continually reinforce the, the learned connections at the birds visual cortex has over the over time, so that those connections don't decay.
11:05
So there's a sort of, like, reinforcement of the connections during sleep it dreams and, but, but yeah, that's the big thing. So, a bird especially is going to need to have multiple scales of resolution then. So, there should be like, you know, from Saint. It has to be like, you know, from the input to the, to neural circuits to hort and start from input to to level one circuits within a column to level two circuits within a column to level two, the entire column being its own oscillator to the networks, above it To the that connect into the thalamus and our oscillated by oscillated around the thalamus.
12:07
Right? So that that the thomas itself can act as like the macro scale frame of representation.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio