b0127y ctpr
(audio transcription needs fixing)
Potassium Brain Neurons
00:00
So, you looked at
00:05
You look that memory formation.
00:11
So obviously, when long-term potentiation happens, there's a new protein synthesis event that happens. And there's a, . That appears your disappears.
00:33
And the the idea is that so short-term memory would be like having
00:49
Having.
00:54
Potassium channels or or sodium channels like opening or closing or connecting or disconnecting.
01:13
And so that's this, short-term memory is those the opening and closing and the connecting and disconnecting of those of those channels. But then a long-term, a long-term memory is like in the see what that can mean is like basically like a neuron adjacent neurons can
01:45
I see what is the mechanism for and neuron to Well. Okay, what I mean? In one sense? You so neurons. So neurons can open or close the receptors on other neurons, right? Because you said, when you're sending neurotransmitters, Your either doing something that is going to excite or inhibit some narrow transmitter on the other side.
02:29
Come. So that's interesting because I'm like, yeah, how does that? How does that work? Exactly. Yeah. So that is an area. I need to explore a little bit more. Like yeah. What is the mechanism for? How a one neuron can open or close a neurotransmitter because see. Okay. See.
02:56
Look the idea is that look, you open the sodium channels first and you open the potassium channels, second. So that, you know, the the sodium channels have a chance to trigger the action potential on the axon from the summer, but but if that and if that happens, then what happens at the same time is, you know, the potassium starts leaving the cells through and that causes a repolarization of this of the cell.
03:30
So like recess to cell. So it could fire again, and so sodium. So sodium is a positively charged and potassium is positively charged, but compared to the sodium, there is a negative gradient in a potassium just by comparison. Like the sodium is more positive. And the potassium is less positive.
03:58
And so, if there's too much positive in the cell, then the the action potential gets triggered. But the when the potassium leaves the cell through the opening of no transmitters. Then the the potassium, I'm sorry. The the gradient of the inside of the cell is going to shift back to negative instead of being positive.
04:34
And so the action potential is brought to an end by the calcium, okay? But the thing is like, if some of the synapses are you know if they're full of let's say that there's
05:01
They can get clogged, they can be stopped, they can be inhibited, they can be dismantled, right? And every time you also the number of available,
05:21
Available, potassium channels and available sodium channels. You're, you're altering, the the shape of the action potential and, and you might be, I mean, you know, I kind of like, I wonder if there's a neuron that has multiple kinds of neurotransmitters and different action. Potential configurations are sort of possible.
06:02
But but so, here's the thing, is the, the action potential has particular shape like a tone that the, let's just say that the it creates a face change in the face. Space. That the face space is the combination of the the inside and outside cell electrodes and the oscillator the the face base created by the neural oscillators.
06:43
So it creates such so it creates. So you can have a really unique sounding tone. And in terms of like, how many receptors, how many sodium receptors, how many calcium receptors are active, how many potassium receptors are active? Because it's going to change, like the amp amplitude and frequency of the firing of the end, the fate and the phase characteristics.
07:13
Well, the phase characteristics are going to be like really amplitude and frequency which are in which are inverted. And in terms of like their proportions, so greater amplitude means less frequency greater frequency means, less amplitude, right? And this happens at multiple scale, so you have like this multi-scale temple, spatial phase space at the brain creates and the brain to text.
07:51
Because because because the field is, is in part, made up of I made it defined by the by the ionic gradient. In addition to the the tonic oscillations of neuro circuits and cortical columns and the physics, the phasic firing of interrupts. The tonic firing with novel patterns that the whole brain can see because it's because it's, it's it's interlinked and you know, and and graph theory, we know that thanks to graph there.
08:49
We know that the sort of randomized connections between neurons means there's a very short there's very short jumps from any from any two years of the brain. It's only a few jumps away over some intern neurons. Down a cortical column one's out and reach across the brand to another cell.
09:19
It's coordinate oscillatory patterns that are very distant from one another in terms of brain space. But the brain can, like, I can, you know, for example, you know, this like very distant patterns are like, just, you know, some obvious examples is are that, you know, you have, what comes into your eyes is sent to both of the hemispheres of your brain at the same time, Each eyes send something to each of the hemispheres of your brain.
10:00
And each year right is
10:08
Is something that, you know, you're considering information that combines your combining visual information with audio, audible information or tactile information, the feeling of your feet. On the ground is you're walking or your butt as you're sitting or your your voice is your talking or your hands is your holding something or sound of one hand clapping.
10:40
Like when you're connecting modalities just thinking about the site of your of your of your hands, the sound of your hands, the touch feel of your hands and when your criss crossing modalities, your temporal, your, your your, your, your your temporal junction is lighting up because you've got so much multi-sensory brain activity linked together that you are paying attention.
11:16
You're conscious of some content, that's engaging, multiple brain areas, and that's sort of like multiple brain areas over time. So there's there are over. There are overlapping oscillations taking place across a synchronized, brand. Activity, taking place across fast distances and the and these activities are not necessarily like actively connected.
11:51
It's like you have one. It's like you have the, you have a brain wave playing out in the stages as it as a travels across your brain because it's, it's not, it's not that it's traveling. It's just that you have your brain areas or each taking their turn to play back, their part in the sequence of your brain activity.
12:18
So there's a ripple as like as if a brain wave was traveling but it's like pixels are lighting up. So clenchally on a screen we're going to have four red pixels. That's like you have one brand section light up then another. There's a temporal neural circuit. Had happens A sequence of rain activations and a certain area by the by the lab of Jackalont points to the semantic mapping of your temple, spatial reality, and actual and distributed and actual spatial regions as measured by the blood flow detected with functional MRI at the lab of Jacqueline and Berkeley.
13:13
And so we do have basically like, you know, I can't like I think, you know, I wonder I think as a journalist I'm changing the configuration of high level objects to integrate existing ideas into a new framework. I think that if you examine the configuration it's rearranging things,
13:43
Just read a lot of things. And and my brain organized a pattern but but the things that I'm referencing you can read about they were done by scientists each step of it. I can point to paper set to talk about these things that illuminate the analogies of what they're or the sorry the descriptions of the methods of the various operations.
14:14
So,
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio