b0124y ctpr
(audio transcription needs fixing) 
Heirarchicalntemporal producer Neurons Oscillation O...
00:00
I'm supposing that that there's a couple things. Previously learned memory sequences consisting of temple, spatial patterns a different scales, different phase, properties different attributes. Different reasons of the mind. Even I learned patterns that they have a sort of a tractor, learn patterns. Create great. A tractors for. Similar sequences.
00:55
So learn pattern will create a tractor for similar sequence to happen again. It's more likely to happen again. For two reasons. One is that the brains expecting it and too, the brain is actually making it more likely to happen again because it's expecting it. So, the expectations becomes an attractor for For modulating more neuronal behavior.
01:37
You know what I mean? The expectation of what might happen next, which is a learned pattern becomes a driver or a tractor for the completion of a pattern that makes use of that learned pattern. And so learned patterns become drivers of behavior. But interestingly like a learned pattern is not just defined in terms of its own pattern but it's also defined in terms of for every action potential that fires that inhibits a nearby space of neurons.
02:24
At the same time that inhibition cycle. Is creating the oscillation frequency and
02:57
But, and oscillation frequency allows the, the oscillation frequency is seen when you have, let's say that the gamma frequency is defined by the decay rate of the, of the inhibition of signal or the LTD signal and so you have. But you have with the camera, you have this sort of like linking or association or binding of different gamma patterns or cross multiple reasons of the brain that happened had some sort of coincidental pattern in temp and time or space or stale, or break or frequency.
03:47
And so the gamma oscillation is accomplished again. Oscillation is basically of large group and oscillator is an oscillator. A larger group that's firing together and it's the decay rate sets the cadence of the gamma oscillation the decay rate of the action of the higher phasic action potential, which inhibits in thereby neurons.
04:28
So what I'm curious about was what is the where are the exact mechanisms for one action potential to inhibit nearby neurons and so this is like yes. So, the way one neuron inhibits other neurons from firing would be to do things like Opening the potassium chat channels too soon or you know, blocking the sodium channels from activating by.
05:04
I know you could, you could be flooding them with with agonists, or basically near a neurotransmitters that our not going to activate this inept and said they're going to block it.
05:26
So that would be yeah but that means well. Okay, no because that's still gonna start still gonna cause excitation overall. So I'm not. Yeah, so I need to kind of like, understand more about how one neuron can trigger LTD in a group of neurons. And the question here, another question character explore is, whether the oscillation of groups of neurons, what the delta oscillations, the data oscillations
06:09
Could also be set by the decay rates of inhibitory of inhibited neurons, right? But anyway, so you think of okay, so you think of, I know you think of an accidental as a solitary event, but it's not it's an event that reflects the body of neurons that become inhibited after the actual potential fires.
06:40
And that inhibit inhibition allows the net weight or signal value of the action potential. To be correlated with a lot of different messengers. A group oscillation that sort of spreads that message or spread the correlated message, regionally, and spatially and temporarily. And, you know, I like to think of
07:17
The action potential as the and as the content of perception and the the and let's see. Your thing is like, the inhibited neurons will also ask me so they're gonna have smaller accents. So I think if the phasic is the information content but it's only half of it's only like carving the statue, you need the statue itself.
07:53
So the statue itself in order to be carved has to react. So the inhibitory reaction of the network sort of symbolizes as sort of, embodies the fashion being carved by the finally, the sculpture, right? And, For, let's say that. The oscillator, the tonic oscillator is meant to be void of information.
08:41
Like a blank. He is a like uncarved marble, right? But over time as the Australians as Austin are learned patterns, it becomes marked by those patterns so eventually the oscillator represents statue, right? Eventually represents the statue, I would say, is the ability to represent multiple patterns via the patterns that are triggered.
09:22
So it's a it's it's a statue. Ask multi-scale tempo, special, and variant, pattern and collector. So it's like, okay it's like if you took every curve and every line that made of the Michelangelo and you scrambled them, those patterns would be in the neurosculator and the patterns that get played back are in essence, the patterns that are learned and there's a patterns that are learned like if you move your vision, if you're walking in the store and you move your vision across the shelf, you know, sometimes you're gonna need curves to model the shelves in front of you, sometimes you may need lines some hunting, they need colors and you're gonna need different patterns as you look at different products on the shelves at a store.
10:15
And the oscillator is going to basically produce here. The attractors to find by previously learned memories, it's going to co-produce sort of like having like the the weight assisted pull-up machine at the gym. It's going to help co-produce the pattern. So you get some of the patterns we'll be coming in from the inside.
10:43
It's like, have you ever like looked at a look to something and you're like, you're not sure what it is and you keep looking at it and you keep looking at it because you have there's two things. There's one is you're getting signals. Raw signals input. Signals please, appreciate.
10:59
And too is your brain is decoding our signals. So your brain is contributing to building the model of what you're seeing each and every time and it's doing it from the patterns that have been collected by your oscillator, right? And playing the back and sequences. So in the sequences are like, yes, so we can accomplish the experience of experience.
11:25
Just like accomplishing the experience of television with one pixel and then one line and then one frame of a of a picture at a time. And the Maltese, the most stales Our relevant, like that you need to scale for pixel level resolution. Don't remember, right? And then you need a scale to coordinate.
11:55
What goes on the one single line of your screen and then what goes on every single line of your screen and a frame. And for how the screen changes in between frames. So you have instructions, you have hierarchical instructions on top of instructions on top ofstructions for how to organize data to present it.
12:19
Play it back live. Has to be played back live in a hierarchy of sequence for other parts of the brains, you have a four-dimensional experience of consciousness and parks that are. So the encoders are really complex pattern encoders, but at the same time they're really complex pattern and decoders hierarchical pattern encoders hierarchical pattern decoders and yeah.
13:02
And that's how the that phase bases written and read. So I wanted to just write this book as a guide to conscious function and human brains for narrow hackers. Their question. Openly is. How can we connect the computer and disconnect AI to our brains and ways that it makes sense?
13:36
Intuitively that allow us to read and write to our brains. As if we're special, kind of hard drive to have it AR and we are through direct brains stimulation to have next generation, medical imaging and treatments, including quitting closely therapies and diagonal. And next generation, diagnoses to have the ability to expand your mind into artificial substrates artificial, cortex.
14:07
Backup your mind into artificial brains and link your mind to. I group networks with other minds such as depictator and the in the next is trilogy around is not and in some cases to gain control machines that are so complex. They require processing the processing power of two minds or three months to operate such as has picked it in science fiction stories.
14:54
Potentially, you know, someone might want to might want to choose to plug their mind into.
15:08
VR or AR computer simulation and have their bodies sort of like preserved. And you know, perhaps there are economical solutions for that. Like if your body is basically captain a chamber can perfectly safe and functional and reasons, we take really good care of you, but we bring your experience with reality the phenomenal experience of reality into the computer simulations so that we create for you, the experience that you are real with with no risk to your actual body.
15:55
So that means that you ultimately our cat safe, and they an event that you and in all of your interactions. So that's that would be an option for people who have our and especially fragile situations. Maybe they're very old and their bodies and is deteriorating and at risk of dying.
16:29
You might want to be put onto the machine to prolong your life and there's a lot of different motivations for why you don't want to get on a machine, but it doesn't have to disrupt your your experience, you're enjoyment. Existence, you can continue to have a very happy wonderful and safe, social life in the matrix.
17:01
So this book is a guide to your narrow hackers for how to even brain works. How does this works? How we can hack it? How we can read and write to it? And how we can replicate human consciousness or a human level and above consciousness in artificial substrates or factory produce substrates.
17:24
So functionally the consciousness is substrate. Invariant there's lots of I'm gonna do it oscillators involves. But the boss later's are.
17:48
Encoding and recoding information and transacting and information by exchanging cases. And in this sort of like function could be completely simulated physics. Simulation running in community or unreal engine. You can do the calculations to correctly. Mimic the reactions of that incoming stimulus is would have on real on flesh and blood brains.
18:23
It could do those. It could simulate those interactions with simulated brains. Hey, we would not be cheap computationally to do, but it could, it could be done in the results. Would be a canvas of consciousness. It's just as real with internal representations rendered in the computer that are just as real to the being that's being rendered on the computer simulator on the computer.
18:54
It would have the same representations because these are because the physics physics of the brain is writing and reading the computations. But the but but the the reader, the readout of South, the information can be Simulated and derive to to produce the same sort of like output the same output and the output is is and here in, here's how we clarify sort of like reduce some of the mystery of this.
19:47
It's it's that the output isn't something internal and internal representation isn't really internal uses your brain, working too hard, okay? The output is an external res, rendering mapping. It's done internally. But it's a an external map that's being produced by other by the physical. Computations of oscillators, it's an external map.
20:25
It's an external render. It's an external painting done internally. You see what I'm saying? That's why it doesn't matter. If the experience is being produced by a computer simulation, it doesn't make the experience less valid.
20:52
Because the experience which is played out over over like a temple and spatial scale. It's not just a movie. It's it's an experienced. That is live reacting to
21:14
Two patterns that are coming both from the senses but also from in from, you know, internal patterns like the muscle patterns and
21:25
But it doesn't matter that if it's a simulation or if it's an actual or potential physical system because whether it's a simulation or an action physical system, it can produce same results which is something that we can interact with something that we could talk with something that can understand and relate the experiences that we're causing its render.
21:56
So that those experiences are driving. It's decisions and it's rendered reflections back to life and that's what I'm getting at. It's like yeah. So you look around and you see that you have a experience, you call it, an experience of reality, where you see the world, you hear the world.
22:30
You imagine yourself is being in the world and you have this model of yourself and other people's minds when other people are thinking. And here ideas about how machines work and how buildings were okay, how governments were in and how different organizations were our schools were? If all these ideas are predictions are models of reality and models of relationships and models of systems and models of functions and models of potential goals and and strategies for getting things these strategies for doing things.
23:23
And the the thing here is that it's it's so all of these perceptions that you have are for you. Everything. And you have some idea of other people also having perceptions about everything. So you have a series of other people's minds. But what I'm getting to is that stop seeing it as your experience stop saying, is your experience, right?
24:01
So, see, imagine that what you're seeing. It's not your.
24:08
Experience of life. But instead, it's
24:17
It's a movie that an organism is, it's a. It's a live movie at an organism is playing to itself, and that movie is responsive. It's it's it's like the movie is is a map. That guy is an organism where it needs to go. You know, sometimes you have feelings like, whoa.
24:46
I need to leave this place. And, oh, I need to go here and I know, I just need to relax and these feelings are sort of helping to also navigate you through this mental map.
25:01
And but you have, but you get to, but get to the realization and all a different pieces of your meantime from the feelings to the 3D world, that these are computed models. We have a computer's model of your fields that that is driving your react. And it's a, it's a four-dimensional spatial temple and spatial map of your of your feeling.
25:43
You know, where do I feel in my gut? That I need to be here right now. We're gonna feel like I need to be somewhere else. Or is it like all around me is great comfort and warmth, and welcomeness and love and peace. And I just feel great where I am today, when I am do it.
26:07
And so, the reason I did, the reason I described that I was like, yeah! Okay. So you can imagine feelings is in front of you behind you, above you below, you inside, you in different places all around users. But these are these are space ideas of where feelings be located.
26:24
Now, when, when is the feeling located, is it now, is it feeling I have before? It's been feeling like this hate. Having is it a memory of a feeling and when is the feeling small and not noticeable? When do I expect hunting me? Think about it. I'm all of a sudden, it's big feeling, that's dominating my thinking and it's in my focus.
26:50
Now as small again, as some other feelings are bigger, I feel feelings countries, scale position, they can change their effect over time. They can peak. They can decrease, they can get bigger. Pain can increase or decrease so it's test. I'm related patterns patterns, have changed and sequences. And so, the brain is really good at tracking and computing.
27:24
These these basically these 3D patterns, daily money and discerning. One set of 3D patterns from another because these patterns have discernible properties. It's a pattern comes with like this high is, it's like patterns are high article in terms of their feature. Representation. They have microscopic messages, them microscale, mesascale and macroscale forms, or they're scaling varying actually, but you can imagine any of any pattern at any size.
28:05
You could imagine a feeling is a small ball, a medium size ball. A big ball, a ball bigger than venue of all bigger than earth, right? You can imagine a feeling as something of any scale, any position, any size any point in time, and your brain can do this for every kind of concept.
28:31
Every kind of emotion can have spatial and temporal and scale characteristics and phase characteristics, like music. Like you can play a tune, you can sing a song in one octave. You can you can sing the same song at another octave, you can change the phases of a melody and it can still be recognizable because patterns are invariant.
29:06
And because patterns can be learned that are invariant to their face properties. Like what tune is like it would octave. Is it is finality being light with and are defined by what which shade you can change and you can imagine a picture and then you can like use like an Instagram filter and make the whole picture a lot more yellow or a lot more red or a lot more blue.
29:38
And some of the, some of the people who are, who are, more visually in fine can actually see in their minds. I a picture changing colors because you're you're, I would say that, you know, color representation is analogous to to learning patterns that are phasing variant. So basin phase and variant patterns can be like a melody song in a different octave or it could be a photograph with with a different color filter on it or a different pattern filter you can give you create stripes all over a photograph and
30:29
So there's a lot, there's a lot of ways and now I can I can, you know, so I can look for I can think of try to think of an example can add to this discussion. Perhaps, and maybe that would be like the avocado cherry example, where you're imagining two things, one is an avocado.
30:55
And two is your imagining a chair? Maybe and now you're managing well. What are some things that can simultaneously? Look like an avocado and look like a share at the same time and in the AI known as GP3 did this you know was set to this task of doing of coming up with images that basically created again synthesis of different things that were halfway between an avocado and halfway between a chair.
31:30
And it rendered 3D images of chair like avocados and avocado like chairs and a whole bunch of them. And they're pretty good in your brain can do that, too. You're basically able to put the point is what the form go with this is that every time I tell that story, I think.
31:54
Well maybe I'll tell this story a little bit differently, right? This time instead of talking about avocados and chairs. I maybe I'll talk about if anything of two things, right? So, one of them will be chicken, I think about chicken. I said that's a food like avocado. So, chicken and the other thing could be furniture.
32:16
So chicken and couches. The other thing I'm actually thinking of drumsticks like a drumstick chicken and a couch. You what I'm saying. So but here's a thing is every time I think of time that example I tended to go back to avocados and chairs. And I think that the reason for that is that my previously learned memory is our attractors that if the memory is high level enough and novel enough and significant dollars, which then probably gonna find its way into my conversations over and over again.
33:00
And the reason the reason why that would be is because previously learned patterns
33:16
Become a tractors in the context of oscillators. And and, and usually you think of an attractor in the context of a harmonic oscillator, that is going to has a source of energy that's going to repeat over and over again. But in the case of the brain, you have, you know, the harmonic oscillators.
33:44
And you can make an argument that the physicists, the high frequency physicverse are decaying oscillators. They're not meant to repeat indefinitely. They're meant to decay and, and the decay is in part part of how the the rest of the oscillator gets to learn a pattern but also be prepared for new patterns.
34:19
It a, you see something. But it needs to get out of the way so you can see the next thing like a frame. You got to have like imagine the point of decay is like it's like low persistence and virtual reality. When you turn your head, you don't want to have the image that the screen was rendering when your head was looking to the left still in front of you when you're looking to the, right?
34:48
So you need a faster decay and in virtual reality they call that lower low persistence, where the persistence of the image on the screen was low it meant that it decaged rapidly or it went black rapidly and the latency of the next image was in was decrease. So the next image would appear more rapidly.
35:15
So this would mean that you could turn your head and you wouldn't see the image from the left like blurring across your vision as if you drag it to your right, when you turn your head from left, right? But instead the image would disappear when it was still on your left, then your head would move to the right and the image that needs to be in front of your eyes.
35:38
When you're looking right in the arm, would would appear you and your brain have to be able to do this same thing. So you need the. So if if, if an action potential firing represented the candidate, the visual canvas of your of your mind and the rendering of the image you're seeing at one point in time, you need that to you really want that to be okay?
36:06
It really fast. You wanted to became a really fast who wanted for size freezer. So it's so that so that you can get. So that your vision is clear to get a new update to switch to a new frame when you move your head. So you want there to be a decay, you want there to be a low persistence to the to the activity time of a narrow burst.
36:40
You want that to be a short time interval and by the same token, use, sort of want the strong white spread oscillations, which which which become encoded with various potential. Renderings grace potential, learn patterns. You want those to be in a state of sort of listening or expect or expectation.
37:20
The sort of like they're not making noise. They're just watching. There's watching and listening as as other neurons. Make noise. They're taking their current as a service and you want the oscillator to sort of like yeah? Okay, so there is a time when the oscillator is going to fire, always with that, I read from Versace last night.
37:42
He said something like,
37:47
Okay. So so The thing is like there is there is like a neural oscillator has neurons in three different phases all the time. So you're always going to have some neurons are taking on the observer roles in Osir. You're always gonna have some neurons are taking on transmitter roles and oscillator the transmitting, their phases collect and you're, oh, in the third group is, you're always gonna have neurons that are inhibited.
38:20
And these are not and and which neurons are, but there's like three different phases that the at the oscillatory oscillating neurons have to go through, but what's critical? Okay. Is that the?
38:51
Okay, so one is that the decay rates of the action potential are helping to set the action potential, the dictator, the decay rates of the inhibition, the long-term depression are helping to set decades. It's not the, they're not the the neurosciation, it's just like it's not reflecting the frequencies of the action potentials, which can be high in physics.
39:20
There, in a sense. Representing the decay period far, the decay time of the inhibition, following the action potential with the K-Time for the group of neurons. That was inhibited by the firing neuron, so that that's sort of like in that process. Okay. Take can result in basically the, a large group of neurons responding to what a single neuron does, right?
40:00
This is a case the bottom up causation. When narrow bursts are in fact, driving inhibition, which is driving, the sort of observer mode of the oscillator. And so there's this, there's this relationship that is is like okay well it's not just the action. Potential represents is the action potential represents.
40:41
The tip of the pen, the inhibition and in a sense is like the brush, that's the brush, the body of the brush of the pen. So that means that it's not just the action potential, be inscribing and oscillator. It's the in inhibitory function, it's also in inscribing the oscillator and whereas the action potential can be thought of as as a sort of Way to imprint memory.
41:34
So, they so, so also the LTD can be thought of as a, a way that goes create associations between related patterns, right? So the isolatory. So the inhibitory activity can be thought of as as a way to help isolates and certain neural activity pattern for broader for the detection of, okay?
42:19
So yeah, so if you so imagine you have two neurons and a huge oscillator fire and they're they're distally separate, but the each cause a huge amount of of neurons around them to become inhibited. Following that. So what it, what might happen is if if those two neurons that fired before fire again then it's possible that the chances that those two neurons sort of form like a long range.
43:00
Links like they learn as they learn a firing pattern that links the two patterns together, so that one. So the firing of one triggers the firing of the other. So this implies that that neurons are selectively learning.
43:30
How to coordinate firing which is which I don't know why I'm saying that I already know this. But yeah. Like yeah. So like so in the higher pump model it's like you have two downstream neurons fire and there's one above it. The fire. Is it recognized that she wants down below at fire, right?
43:49
But the thing is, like, just because the one above it, recognize as a two below it, we're firing, right? That does not necessarily mean that the two that ballot that were below, it were firing, well, understand that they are firing together and wiring together, right? So hot. So how is it like, right?
44:16
So they're firing together and that the coincidence is detected at a higher level up. But with the heat, the idea of he being learning those, just two neurons have to sort of wire together. So that they so that they so that each neuron can look at what the other neuron is doing and predict that it's going to fire from that or basically be the and basically become the recipient.
44:46
And so you would expect yes. That a new that a new narrow transmitter pathway between those two neurons is going to be created that didn't exist before and that could be that I mean that could be some sort of like increase in the number of synapses across many different neurons.
45:14
That connect those two neurons in more of and more of an upstream path. So so yeah, so it seems like the synaptic in that case the, the synaptic you you might see that more dendritic, spine receptors would grow a path between multiple bodies and neurons to create a more direct neural circuit between definitely firing patterns and then aero circuit would would be sort of grown out of nothing.
46:01
Like basically long-term potentiation would result in a chain of brand new receptors between these neurons in your process. But how it works in more detail is something to be studied, you know, obviously long intern neurons are used to connect regionally distance parts of the brains such as the left and right visual cortex, a certain patterns in the left and right, hemispheres would be connected by intern neurons.
46:50
That would be connected to pyramidal cells of the tops of columns and each areas of each cortex. And I don't know if there's a thelamic bridge between the two halves of the digital cortex. Maybe, but regardless there's some there are there are things in between it that working pathways.
47:15
But, but it is a fact that connections via synapses grow with long-term attention. And that could be an additional vector for how signals across the scope of the human brain are coordinated. Can so and to sort of close the scope of this, what I'm suggesting is that the emergence of oscillations, like gamma oscillations and, and perhaps, alpha and delta and the theta oscillations that there's, these are serving to increase the chances of, of distal connections, not.
48:13
Not because of the firing component, but because of the inhibiting component, because the inhibiting component is reactive to the phase of firing inhibiting component. Actually, I don't know. So, maybe tonic inhibitions a little bit different. Yeah, because that's more automatic but but phase response of LTV LTD is probably going to increase the chances of the brain.
49:01
Formulating acquaintance, detections across spatial distances and maybe across temporal distances, right? So maybe that's part of it too.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio