b0125y ctpr
(audio transcription needs fixing)
Neurons Muscles Barbell
00:01
Stuff. I think, what? All in this, I think you can argue that any person is in the sort of situation where the people they interacted with, in the past have responded to them with with varying degrees of happiness. Some of them significantly less happy than others. And some of them, a lot more happy than others about the past interactions.
00:32
That's not to sort of point fingers at the who did, what first, and what was their causeality. And the responsibility. You know, oftentimes people get people become in the course of a commerce conversation where there's back and forth. Conversation, you're becoming an oscillator with that other person. And if if things are, if the result is a positive outcome, both persons probably contributed to that positive outcome.
01:05
And if it's if it's a less positive outcome, if it's not as positive, both persons probably contributed to that less than less positive outcome. Okay. And so and some cases, you know, the the communications with people that you met in your past or strengthened, in some cases, they're decreased a weekend or broken off.
01:38
And this is sort of like a fractal of what happens at the at the it with your with your neurons on the micro level. It's a fact that because yes so the the neurons are connected by synapses and sometimes the connections grow and sometimes they disappear. And the kind the sort of like analog the the big picture analogy is that the human social network and the social network of neurons.
02:16
They have some frat interesting fractal parallels that that can be considered for potential insights. One of those insights. Might be that people that we are not talking to. Now that we were talking to in the past, they still exist and a shared network, but it's not, it's not like this network has to it, it's not that this network has to become diseased or cancerous.
02:58
Maybe there was some sort of event or lesion that drove people apart, drove the neurons apart and maybe it was traumatic for both. I don't know. But the point is that that if you think of it as a human being is kind of like kind of like a neuron as a functional fractal.
03:27
Functional. Fractal, isomorphism of a neuron in terms of
03:40
Resonating with, with patterns, transmitting patterns, receiving patterns, and storing patterns to replay patterns. There's a, you know, the fractal of a neuron is the fractal of a neurosurgeon is the fractal of a cortical column is the fact of a neuro oscillator. The fact is a factor of your whole brain.
04:08
It's the fractal of a person in the context of their social relationships.
04:16
And So sometimes, you know, we have, I want to say we have, we have breaks with other people or we have unions with other people and he's breaks. And unions can be profound significant transformational. They can cause changes to the people involved, and when There can be. So there could be so think about it this way, so there could be high level configuration reasons for why two neurons don't communicate with one.
05:04
Another anymore that has nothing to do with what either neuron actually did. But it comes from a high level sort of like interference pattern. You can see that in the case that neuroscellators. Well, if you're looking at EEG, at the frequency, at the frequency band of alpha theta, delta gamma it is horizontal bands.
05:35
Sometimes you'll see these vertical fans, intersecting a horizontal bands across spectrum and that's that is higher level dipole activity exerting a sort of taught noun influence on. It's a high level configuration structure, exerting top down influence on on lower level. Configuration structures. And the reverse is also true because this system is sort of Tonically cycling neurons at a slow rate that can that has the effect of hangovers that a lot that this this, this hyper readiness state can allow the the individual of her probation perturbations of small scale, firing to exert an influence on a larger scale assembly.
07:12
And in terms of being that tipping point, thing that the shifts the entire assembly from one state to another but the tipping point. So, the shipping point idea, is sort of like accomplished because tonic oscillations give you a bridge, which means you do not necessarily wish me as you do not need.
07:38
So small oscillations, have a hand. It's like weight displacement, machines at the gym, but weight, displacement machine means that you can do pull-ups. If you don't have enough muscle to lift your weight, as long as the machine is helping you to lift yourself. The machine is giving you like.
08:02
Okay. So like instead, so it's like, instead of instead of needing like
08:12
You know, let's say that, let's say that. Like in my case, I I tend to oscillate around 200 pounds for most of the, for most of the past several. Maybe the past six months. Been oscillating around 200 pounds and there's a certain amount of muscle that it takes to do a pull up.
08:39
If you're 200 pounds and and in many cases that's more must and in many cases that that's in my case that's more muscles than I have. But there's a weight displacement machine. A polar machine that says, okay, well, you can use your smaller muscles that are not that can left.
09:03
I don't know, a hundred pounds or 150 pounds. I'm not sure exactly what it is. If you can do, if you can lift the smaller amount, we will support you and displace the rest of your weight. It's sort of like the you know like when you exercise in the water right after a broken maybe someone had a broken arm like I had a broken arm this year and exercising in the water removes.
09:29
A lot of weight which allows you to perform movements with muscles that it either been destroyed through injured injury or astro-fried atrophied from inactivity during the recovery time so that you can grow those muscles with less weight. It's like, okay. So like it's like how could a smart like imagine like a small event is like a, I mean, like a single neuron firing.
10:03
It's like trying to pick up a 30 pound barbell with an arm that has a has them an amount of muscle that's going to be really comfortable with lifting a 10 pound bar belt, but not anything heavier, right? So, trying to lift a 30 pound bar below without when you can only really, like comfortably lift, a 10 pound barbell, that's going to be hard to do and what you do is you is you just you do more with a 10 pound barbell and you grow some muscle, take some protein or you know increase your protein content and and you know after you work out your your muscle with the 10 pound barbell and then you move through a 12 pound barbell or 15 pound barbell or 20 pound or 25 in that order.
11:01
Preferably so that your mom as your muscle, grows your taking on slightly higher amounts of slightly greater amounts of weight. Now there are you know an order for your neurons to cause your muscles to fire. They need to send a lot more than a single neuron transmission. It's not like a blinking.
11:26
LED is going to trigger your is going to be enough energy to cause your muscles to fire. So we have, you know, for the muscles, we have these gap junctions, which are, you know, the electrical synapses which are basically every every chemical neuron starts out as a as a gap junction neuron, it starts out as an electrical sites for transitioning to being in some cases, becoming a chemical synapse, the chemical synapses sort of like the electrical synapse is sort of free records.
12:15
That structural building block to a chemical snack. So the electrical said there's there was at one point and a life, you're both synapse inside every chemical synapse. And whether that still active or inactive is is is a different question, but if you want the ability for signals to quickly amass power to move muscles, there is a way for that and those are excited to worry.
12:50
Network oscillators that that allow one, small neuronal event to trigger a large cascade of excited neurons. And that produces through the process of Ltd, long-term long-term depression that produces group, oscillatory activity that is going to provide the amount of energy necessary for for coordinated motor function. But that's different from what you the different from what you might need for making sensory distinction.
13:52
So there's what what's useful for making sensory? Distinctions are inhibitory neurons that can really divide up patterns and novel ways. And, Chemical synapses that can break down. Basically, they can break down and distribute the phase information of a single neuron in a, in a way that allows a network oscillator to learn, high level, and varying patterns.
14:38
Multi-dimensional multi-scale patterns.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio