b0121y ctpr
(audio transcription needs fixing)
Voltage Neurons Synapse
00:00
So as the neurosurgeon buyers and sequences which means you have a neuron will go off an area and it will inhibit the rest of the receptive field that can see it. Because it is the because they're connected to its external. So the neuron will. So when your angle goes off and it blocks a whole bunch of other.
00:25
So this is an inhibition, inhibitory reaction and involving a lot of neurons. And then, and there's a third group of neurons that are just watching this. All this happen, via the little via the neurotransmitters they're receiving on their membrane. That's a lot. That is by allowing Iams to flow through the synaptic, through the synapse to here, it to move the voltage towards either a depolarization or repolarization.
01:15
You know, to either move the voltage towards an action potential or towards just being very inhibited from being able to fire and not being able to not firing, right? Because has to be, just not able to fire for a time. That's seen. It is the inhibitory phase so it also has between these three faces.
01:39
It's like yeah sometimes it's in the talking phase which isn't going to actually potential as fired. And sometimes it's the listening phase. When it is just and, and in the interval where it's just collecting where it's, it's voltage is going up and down, but below threshold, right? So it's there's above threshold phase.
02:11
There's a below threshold phase and then there's like inhibited and unable to fire.
02:25
Things. So I mean that there's like a reset there's like a it's like a sleep cycle I think maybe but what happened because so this means that there's always some neurons speaking. There's always some, you know, observing or listening or and then they're always somewhere in here. Like we can't, they can't maybe they can't listen because the synapses are clogged or you know, we
03:03
Too many of the K channels get open.
03:09
I just gets inhabited from firing for this because the K channels have been because the K
03:21
Because, because the
03:30
Don't know how long that can work. But,
03:40
And it doesn't.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio