b0132y ctpr
powerbands as attractors lenses
00:00
Okay, so just imagine power bands. Converging something. Imagine you had five instances of alpha or five instances that beta and they're all just a little bit different beta. One two, maybe two or four by five, maybe six and let's say that. Each one of them was like a representation of in our room and one of the representations was off.
00:23
It was wrong and let's see if you have five, five them have any simultaneously, then they can sort of average each other out or the or the truth is like this Tomographic is some of the intersections that are true for true. Most of the time like like tomography my collector company's demography, you know, where it's like the intersection there's four year slice transport where you can take you can take we take a scientific 3d picture, I think take a picture if you know that treaty slice represents level through the object represents the midpoint to that 3D object.
01:12
And anyway if you have if you've pictures from all around the three object, where those images intersect, if you line them up correctly, give help to help you reconstruct. The original three dimensional image. And so, when and I'm really interested to see the combination of like yeah, deep learning, plus tomography, electric computer.
01:43
Because it's like that's closer to here with the hearing rangers to do with with representing information and multiple lines. Multiple streams of incoming information, multiple kinds of representations and multiplayers of cortex, multiple sensory, representation sampling easily there. Core linked into related interconnected associated distributing distributed and associated templates. Patiently representations over time.
02:26
And but like what I'm saying is like if power brands like are easily converge and oscillatory, dynamics and electrons are attracted to power bands, then the power bands might be serving as a, the power bands of low frequency. Oscillators like between 0 point to hurts and having 70 parts.
02:58
Like everything that's like below high gamma. So like low gamma and high and all the betas and alpha data and delta like those power bands are perhaps you're like low amplitude neurosurgeon set attract coop cooperation because they're low amplitude. Widespread firing results in neurons, that sort of like send a love frequency.
03:46
Sort of.
03:57
Fried engaged brought more, broadly engagement engaging,
04:04
Community driven false that contrast with the less often in frequent spontaneous phasic.
04:30
So, there's just like, who's acting state are ready, state, which is like low time firing and then incoming, seriously are like fast drilled system and I'm saying that the stuff that finds our consciousness is the diversions between the high frequency, you know, activity, neuro pattern and the low frequency, oscillating of pattern of observing neurons.
05:14
And that interaction is at six. Like the interaction is what prints. That's where that's where the canvas of consciousness is printed, and it's what it's printed with, and oscillators with their own physic with physical iron and also, you know, and and also inhibitor patterns, right? And habit for variations.
05:53
All right, so with the amount of inhibitory, internal the inhibitor internal system, we have the ability to have a vastly greater number of variations of the number of patterns within the (neural assemblies)?, the network can take on. And the idea is now I have this idea that your mind is representing information and we'll scale.
06:21
So that you have like a sort of was able to protect perhaps the scale and variances. In addition to position and variances and orientation, embarrass in terms of learning what objects are right. It can form basically virtual representations of and not depending on their location and not depending on here size and it helps us depending on their position.
06:59
So, that allows you basically your imagination to run free inside your imagination.
07:10
It means you can imagine infinities because you're bringing is able to represent any pattern summer independent of any other pattern that sort of like it's sort of like you know you can imagine that two different items are on the same canvas or you can imagine you have multiple camerases each with their own set of items, each society, different rules.
07:39
And, I mean, it's helps better if you have some experience and like, game development or whip, or if it's hard development because you might because dealing with 3D canvases is, this is some of this language aren't people alien to but common, you know, we're talking about WebGL related, terminology LGB.
08:08
We're just computer graphics related to religion, right? Yeah. So there's there's a potential buying agency advanty because oscillators are oscillating. Power bands are going to attract information together. So information is going to two verge. So you have multiple representations, or multiple viewpoints, or multiple renderings, in the same out of the multiple side, and those multiple representations, in a sense, get to vote as they converge because the, there's the thing that there is more instances of has a greater likely or something that is fewer answers to suffering.
08:53
So when you say, oh well, I thought I saw but that was like, that was like a virgin of reality that your mind rejected because the other versions of your reality were we're saying it's like the difference. There was too many the ones ever seen, right? Then we're saying the thing that you don't believe in and none of version representative.
09:18
You don't that you think is not real. I think that you think was just an illusion or trickier. I said like that we're just super second in that that version of reality was like sort of discarded. So in a way, different regions of your mind represented different views in your mind, sort of voted through convergence and the convergence might be the converging power band.
09:48
Or just you could, you can also look at it as, you know, conversions would include the deviation of would include. So when the neuron fires in the basic pattern, it sleeps autonomic design faster or worse, inhibited and there's it's not fine with the offset at this point. The thing is so let's say it's fire skin and maybe it's still not fine with the offset or but it's fine a little bit closer to it's off later.
10:20
But oscillator itself is going to insert a sort of attraction to pulling that smaller. Oscillating, neuron back into the same tonic frequency flow, I just ready for being ready for a phase of firing. So the phase of firing to be cold for, but it happens because of physics the physics and oscillators and oscillation is sort of like
10:51
Part of the process. It is part of it goes with the fact that the rest of the nerves in that network have sort of through the exit routine listens and through. Yeah, through their connections, through anything they can receive through any sign of change cause by one, neuron that affected nearby.
11:13
It's nearby buddies that they could. Potentially perceive is coming from this now or perceiving and not coverless now, but just because just causes the change to the structure and change to their percentage field. Sometime the very sensitive things neurons are like, that is
11:46
It's it's the idea is that, you know, all the different possible ways which neurology connect each other IA and not 100% sure on. And I'm not I want to know but it's they're complicated and it's right now I just see, I just say I leave open the possibility that there's somebody's listening around sir around that.
12:24
That I have yet to be sort of described, or I'm just not aware of where they're described, and there might be other descriptions of neurons, that haven't encountered yet and describe the capabilities of different ways. Certainly, when you read a book, that's not, it's just about what cells can do, in general.
12:45
Sales are very impressive. And in, in the context of all the amazing things themselves doing neurons are very impressive, but you wouldn't necessarily hear that from a cop from a class on competitional neuroscience not work with the perceptron, which is the oversimplified and definitely wrongly simplified neuron
13:30
I mean, the idea I guess is that power power bands and spectra could be not only just, you know, converging information. I guess the exercise I could symbolize work, converging information. If an oscillator is collectively, reading out a face, a temple, spatial phase pattern, coinc at the same time that it is being absorbed by the by basically.
14:05
You know that like I'm just imagining like if you had if you had a brainwave that's like being passed along a network, it's like each subsequent row is going to to have a different variation like game telephone. Like, every time you pass the signal, along a telephone along a connection in the telephone game.
14:32
Each person makes a tiny variation so the signal changes quite a lot from the first person to the last person. But idea is that because of the way, the brains rock is kind of randomized. We have very short connections between one point and any other point. And you have, you also have multiple like, the pattern is, has multiple lines.
15:02
That are being where the patterns are being communicated across multiple lines. And let's those multiple lines are variations in the same pattern but they can be added up like the way you add up tomography look for the intersections or to find to define the object. This gives the chance for multiple lines of pattern replication to converge in a power band type of configuration, which, you know automatically takes the near the high instances of the same pattern, repeating as a greater likelihood that, that a pattern is a real pattern.
15:46
And that's going to overrule, it's probably probably going to overall doesn't have to overall, it's probably going to roll and something. And in many cases, like the deviation where a certain representation of the incoming pattern was, was not a captured correctly. So this this in a sense is like one of the latest back propagations research papers put out by faceobok, where they have basically, in their own network that is creating two representations.
16:20
One is like the the main representation and one is like an imaginary prime imaginary prime of the same representation, right? But anyway it's like an imaginary variation and it compares a two variations and like confused the average in order to get rid of the imperfections and either model, I guess it's like making multiple.
16:51
It's like having multiple neural networks simultaneously, learn the same thing but then having them compare results and keep the results that are in common, so that the results that are less common can be considered as mistakes and the consistency of the, of the results that we're in, common can be, can basically make the recognition of the pattern that we've learned more robust.
17:16
And it's sort of creates like a biologically plausible form back propagate, basically have multiple incoming sensor streams, each taking sort of like, sensory readings and then like independent that's really readings. And then having those different sensory readings sort of like combined in the brain. But also I think that, you know, in terms of like yeah, the file system of the brain idea that and we're open on something.
17:51
It's basically being amplified on multiple scales which is sort of like taking. It's like it's sort of like making a projection out of something tiny and rejecting it to the global to, to the macros stock. So, I'm suggesting that all of our big thoughts are stored in in small small areas, and that they can amplify during the time that we're thinking about them.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio