b0131y ctpr
(audio note: transcription needs to be fixed)
Tomographic language Oscillators
00:00
Remember that there was some examination of like early Sumerian language and they found it seemed to be overly repetitive for as if the same thing was being repeated over and over and over again, which is strange, I guess it sounds like more like a ham. Like if you figured our pizza, same mantra over and over again.
00:23
But perhaps it could be also that early language was a little bit more like tomography where like the tomography of how your brain posting is together. We're basically there's a repetition of the same pattern over and over and over again, with small deviation. So that so that the brain has the ability to consider the many different variations of the pattern.
00:56
And in order to sort of, like, try to detect try, so try to try to convey, meaning, through through, through repetitions with fraternity deviations. So that might be. It's almost like it'd be almost like trying to create waves of meaning or songs or hymns or verses like repetitive versus like, you know, like where we have like like hmm.
01:43
And so like yes. So maybe ancient Sumerian like, so maybe we're looking at verses or songs with which ancient within just a marion writing with repetitive nature. Or maybe it's like, it's like the script, like, if I could describe a cube with where each we each each like line in the verse represents a different different different feeling of every different side of the cube.
02:15
So it's like, I'm gonna try whatever you like. Yes. So it'd be like, haha, haha. And then haha enough like okay, it's weird but I'm like, I'm just like, well, if this is, you're talking about the beginning of written language, right? In the beginning of sort of like conceptualizing what written language can be and who knows what spoken language was was like at the time, it could be that that spoken language was similarly, very primitive where people would sort of take a long time to make a lot of repetitive sound to try to clarify what as much as possible, what they're thinking, what they're feeling what they're seeing and just putting in like a ton of effort ton of effort and ton of repetition into sort of like sort of like developing some sort of vernacular like imagine.
03:46
So, like, imagine the orcas right? The workers in the water. And at the reason I been thinking about orders recently is because I, I, I once I went, I went swimming with my, with my arm after I entered my arm, I, I broke my shoulder and it wasn't the worst shoulder break, and I seem to recover pretty fast.
04:10
I was also, I also take as I'm really good about my nutrition, so, but I went swimming. And when I was in the water, I was able to do something. I could not do outside the water which is, I was able to, to move the arm slowly in every in every direction that the other arm can also move.
04:29
So I was able to like like right now. Like I can't really stretch the arm all the way out to my left or all the way out of both above my head outside the water but in the inside the water for my arm doesn't way as much relatively speaking.
04:46
I'm able to raise my left arm way above my head, because the same height that I can raise my, my right arm and I'm able to move my left arm all the way. But what I know this is that I that when I first did this, I was groaning like an orca and the water you're like this.
05:11
I mean that's not actually, I was just doing a better at the gym. That's just the torque terrible version of it, but the idea is like oh it's like this long wine. It's like a long sort of like come complaint about how I'm feeling, right? So maybe the first sort of like, first concepts of writing, we're like, well, maybe we need a sort of like something that
05:44
You know, captures the feelings that we're having maybe we want to write down our feelings, and they, and people express their feelings as these moans. But people would just moan repetitively and they would sort of like convey. It's, you know, between their eyes and their moans, they would convey the they emotion and of their their journey for rather human beings.
06:11
Listen to I'm just like I know this is like really silly but I'm just like, this is just it's it's just speculation. Just silly speculation. But I would just like to think that there could be some sort of value in seeing, maybe there's transcriptional value in. And seeing the the ancient Sumerian writings is you know, something that we could see as a sort of like very repetitive slow tomography, you know, like it like like the same signals traveling through many different layers of cortex and being represented, slightly differently.
06:56
As they pass through each area, and the deviations that are happening, having a sort of You know, resulting in basically the ability for brain for brain areas, sort of, especially in what specialized in in types of knowledge. Okay. But also to be sort of like robust in their recognition of different perspectives that can play back across regions of the brain and it and and and the playback can be somewhat location and variant because
07:49
Because the can be locationed, very if the basically, if the recognition of active, sort of, like, regions of the brain, depends on what's in focus. Right? What the, which part of microscopic activity? Brain activity is being amplified to the mesothelial scales. And so what's in focus is and and so that is going to, you know, be went and in focus is going to be like when you have multiple brain areas in coordination.
08:39
So the key junctions between the sensory input areas like the temporal part of a core effect. So, a temporal product junction and other key junctions would would possibly become more active. As a result of the bottom up influence of coordinated activity across different reasons, because here's the thing is, like, the idea, is that a higher level is going to light up, when there's a, coincident pattern, at a lower level?
09:15
And on a macroscape on a mesoscale, the ideas that the temporal product junction would line up as a representation of the fact that you have stuff lighting. So, you have simultaneous activity and, and in the and multiple brain, and multiple brain regions representing multiple sensory input areas. So, just the auditory cortex visual cortex, as madison's report texts.
09:45
And you know, with whatever's happening in here, you're pridal lobes or temporary or temporal lobes or reciprocals and so simultaneous, sensory activity, bottom, bottom up, driven activity is going to cause a high level of coincidence, pattern, activity. And so parts of the brain that are more highly networked are going to become active.
10:16
If you have a greater number of their constituent parts in synchronization or activity, because this high level networking activity, sort of alludes to lower level coincidence patterns and to in to that it and that explains why, you know, you could have bottom of activity driving helping to once get help into dry patterns at a high level.
10:52
But in the same in this, the same thing is a pattern that the mezzoscale and the macroscale. They those configurations also have positive tower. So they so that's also going to you know you know, oscillators want to influence other oscillators, some of them will just pack it other oscillators and make sure that you know, other oscillators don't merge with them.
11:23
So like maintain boundaries between oscillators oxides will and just like imagine, you know, you have star systems interacting, right? And you know, the stars don't automatically merge sometimes but sometimes a star that's it's very it's this flying through the sky can affect the gravity of another star and sometimes you have two started rotating around each other.
11:48
But they're not merging but they're gravitational effects are sort of forcing them to spin around each other or for some sort of like, for different different strange. Spinning configurations are possible where you can have two different oscillators that are interacting, but not merging because they're just, they're not close enough to merge where they don't have enough gravitational influence to make a merger happen.
12:24
But they have enough area effect to disturb or offset or mess with other oscillators and cause and stimulate other oscillators to maintain alternative oscillation past. So,
13:13
So orcas, yeah.
13:20
So, I don't know. I mean, so, I mean, but you haven't inside. So even if that's even if there is no way to decode into Sumerian by thinking of it as and a form of pomegranate, communication. All right. We're communicating on topographic picture one, line at a time. And the co-occurrences are supposed to help you construct your the model that's being transmitted, even if that's not right.
14:00
And yeah, that's kind of far back just, but
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio