b0134y ctpr
(audio note: transcription needs to be fixed)
Consciousness Causality Metaphors
00:00
We continue. It reminds me a lot of Consumerance is about a new way. It's the book is I'm sorry, the book has had to understand everything else. A new way to see the world by Tom Big Bang. And there's there are some there's some parts of the book that I enjoyed, but a lot that I disagree with.
00:25
And so, you know, for example, for example, like I like when he was describing, you know, how that year worked, and the vestibular system, it was very that, was I really enjoy. I really enjoyed that but it's like, you know, I think it it quickly became you know, like like just sort of like it flies over how know how in your room mechanism was work specifically to produce consciousness which is like a huge invasion technique.
01:07
So hey, so here he's presenting sort of like he's like, I'm just gonna, like, loss over how neurons actually are involved in immigration of consciousness and just pretend that. That is a problem. Someone else will solve, but I'll go ahead and explain to you what consciousness is based upon, you know, my model of conscious.
01:24
So he's so he's explaining us his model consciousness, but it doesn't go down into, you know, the the detail that actual details of neurons, but he sort of like hand waves away. He says, well, you know, like, the reason the reason basically that that consciousness is not computation when his and his, his view appears to be that that because you can, he says, he basically, he's saying that consciousness exists in melodies and it exists in metaphors and it it's melodies inside metaphors or metaphors inside melodies or something.
02:06
And that's to like a computer, can't do that. That's what he's, it's like you. He's like you might take you might take you know you might say that there are the politics is a dog fight and that makes sense that they might make sense to you say oh how is it like a dog fight?
02:26
Okay, you think okay. But then you say politics is like a plant. And, and this is from his book. This is this example. Well, now that doesn't make sense. How does politics like a planet? The dog fight? The dog fight analogy made more a sense because we know that one, right?
02:45
And and, and so, the here we have these comparisons of metaphors. Okay. That he, you know, we want to, you know, in different modalities. So he saying that, you know, like, you know, the meaning of a smell as a temple, spatial pattern, it it, it's it. What it means to us is sort of related to some sort of related to different different.
03:29
Like the metaphor that is is is related to other ideas. Like we're relating some set of ideas and one metaphor to a set of ideas in another. And but this doesn't like this is very it's very much like I think closer to Roman psychology and like theories of the mind and definitely like a more outside in sort of model of consciousness.
03:57
That isn't based. It's more like so outside. And it's like more like, you know, we don't know how it works. But but this is what we intuit is happening based upon our day to day observations and, and our observations talking to patients in the lab. And so, it's not like it just, it reminds me strongly, you know, and then then and then pretty soon he starts referring to the symphony.
04:27
The orchestra I'll call you the orchestra of the of the brain or the orchestra of the mind, which sounds a lot like his constant references to the orchestra of the brain is, is the magic sauce that solves everything. It's it's not it's not has that completely wrong to say that but like everything's encoded in melodies.
04:47
And that's that's a very like I would say that the modalities that he seems to be most comfortable with appear to be, auditory modalities, you know, from talking about the ear to like comparing, you know, like the essential building blocks of consciousness is melodies like he we see we see things in terms of melodies and and how is what he sort of like describe like, you know.
05:17
So it's very like this is for this book is gonna definitely resonate acoustically with people who are auditoryally inclined. You should get the audiobook version of it. Now, I'm but I. But in terms of like, yeah, so the idea of the orchestra of the mind is not a new idea.
05:38
There was a book of about EG that was called symphony of the mind. That's worth reading. When I read his book, most closely reminds me of a book by Nicholas Humphries called sold us which described sort of like the suit. The the symphony, like, activity of the mind is, is being the the symphony of the soul, remember correctly.
06:07
I have to go and look that up, but I need to go back and review those books. Make sure I have have them correct that. Yeah, that I will do that now. I mean, they're suggesting that the mothers in, in his book, there's some sign. There's some research conclusions that the mothers interaction with the infant, is sort of like setting up and establishing the turntaking of of social behavior of speaking and listening.
06:36
But I think that's just a consequence of how neurons operate in terms of taking turns transmitting and receiving, like they oscillate between being receiving neurons being inhibiting their arms or being, you know, broadcasting or also broadcasting, or in other words, transmitting neurons. And so they have. So there's but it's not, I mean, it's actually more complicated in that there's actually there's like a ton of firing phase, which is like the standard expectation and like of being, like, in the, that's when neurons are fine together in large groups in oscillators, and it's like a slower, you know, frequency fine pattern during the day, you might have like the power band of your alpha, oscillating layers might be greatest during the day.
07:28
I mean, you know, maybe you have a cup of coffee and they get and they go and your beta becomes the dominant power band. If you're doing me, you know, I don't know exactly. I I'm, you know, there are times when when you're gamma might be the let me walk that back for a second.
07:50
What I'm thinking is that the
08:00
The power band, the tonic frequency power band they kind of goes up to gamma let's say it goes up to high beta. Okay. Not not, and not up to camera not into camera not but up to but not into gamma. So say it's goods everything from Delta theta alpha beta and I'm not a hundred percent sure if this is the way it is.
08:25
But I definitely will find find out for sure in the second edition and are basically. There will be like if you like I'll update like I'll do this is the first, this is the first print. But if you order the first print, when I, when I update the book, I will make the second second edition available to you for free.
08:57
If you bought the first book so you just make. I just have like the receipt of purchase will be and NFT, right? That's your first heated purchase and then I'll send you the first edition and then I'll send you the second edition. So the first edition I expect to have a lot of errors and then I'm going to work out with the neuron and mechanisms are like after feet after dialogue and feedback and I'll and I'll note you know, I'll record a record my collaborations so basically I'll figure it.
09:33
Figure them out and record my collaborations with neuroscientists. In fact that's actually the way I want to do it as a recording as part of the release podcast. So the follow-up, the follow up to the book will be to sort of try to improve the the book by asking real neuroscientists.
09:50
In recorded broadcast conversations to help me improve various parts of my theory. And so that way, I have basically a series that's about improving how consciousness actually works because far beyond with Tom beakbains book is proposing, but one of the things I want to note is that is that everything that he describes in terms of, you know, the the the brain being able to make analogies in one sensory date domain and compare them to analogies and another sensory domain that concept for sort of was also sort of like exemplified and goalless right when you can make when when when when someone can make make an analogy of a self-referential loop in mathematics and with with an auditory feedback loop or visual feedback loop and then sort of like the scribe, like a learning feedback loop for human being, right?
11:01
It's like you're you're able to here, your own voice and so you are. So the result of your brain activity is going out of your ears. I'm sorry out of your mouth out of your vocal cords and into your ears again. So that you're creating a feedback loop that that extends the activity of your brain outside of itself and back into itself.
11:30
So, there is a connection there. Is it there is a in, in a sense it's like your brain is making you a wireless connection between two areas of your brain through your vocal patterns. Same thing happens, when you look at yourself in the mirror, your movements in mirror actually cause you to actually cause you to change and evolve here.
12:02
I'm sorry, I missed spoke, your movements in the mirror caused you to develop your perception of yourself and to grow your perception of yourself and to grow your awareness of yourself. This is the sound of your voice does that. Now you could really just focus on making simple sounds and dial in on that as a meditation and like look in the mirror and focus on simple.
12:23
Sounds to make like a humming sound or a mantra that you could repeat a long mantra and just focus really on yourself. And these are types of neurofeedback where you're just sort of making connections of between your thoughts and feelings and the, how your thoughts and feelings, which are causing subtle changes to your body to your body, to your sounds to your, to your movements.
13:01
And so you could do that another. There's other ways to do neurofeedback with, you know, by capturing some representation of of, your of your brain activity, with with EG for example, or or function, or f nearest functional interference spectroscopy. There's, you know, I, I am dreaming of a day, when which we can, you know, sort of use electrical impedance tomography to create like a live 3D model of the, the molecular structure of your of, your of your head and in 3D that, that you can look at and watching real time as it as your as changes happen.
14:00
And even then you make correlations between the changes you're seeing and the thoughts and feelings, you're having. So you basically by seeing this are going to decode yourself or decode. The the patterns reminiscent of your own thoughts from that 3d from that live updating 3D model of a molecular structure representing.
14:25
What electrical impedance tomography has done in combination with artificial intelligence to render your to render some representation of your of, your of your brain. I think that could be really fascinating and that's one of the, it's one of the brain computer interfaces that I want to build. Okay, let's go back to quantum physics, right?
14:53
So so apparently quantum particles leap sleep forward from spots to spot like the pixels and in television, because no spot in space can be smaller than a plank second, right? Although this is this is the prevailing theory but it's a theory of nothing. Nothing in space can be smaller than playing second.
15:17
So, particles are like the pixels in a volumetric television screen and their teleporting from one location to another. Or it's as if the grids it's if phases in the grid are are changing, which is interesting because I'm basically I'm essentially proposing a that's how the mind works is that it's basically producing and tracking phase changes in a in a four dimensional grid.
15:55
And and that the universe that it's tracking, and a four-dimensional grid in phase changes. Also exists as phase changes but is that but how those phase changes might be attract by the cosmos itself is sort of like something that the folks who there's a group of folks who are considering that the physics of the universe itself, might have its own natural selection process.
16:34
That could explain why physics is the way it is. Today, the physics has basically evolved and developed. Just like biology has evolved and developed and in and, you know, that that's interesting because by biology is, the is the is an example of physics. Evolving, it's a physical system, that's evolving, right?
17:00
So biology is an example, physical system evolving. But the idea is that the same rules apply at even the quantum scale that the whole system of the cosmos is evolving or developing new patterns over time because the likelihood of certain pattern arrangements
17:27
Where enough to tilt the system in a particular direction. And so for this time, at this point in in the perhaps infinite history of space time that the the elementary particles of of space lined up to produce this perhaps as perhaps it's, you know, what happens when you combine infinite possibilities with infinite times, you eventually get this this reality
18:09
It implies that there's no that there's no director but instead like a natural selector and you know, I guess the argument with the self is that there is a, you know, we want to say well there's a director that's like a ghost starter that can leave the body after you're done with it.
18:32
Head. Like that makes any sense, but I'm saying, like, okay, the director is actually a reactor that's reacting, and but the reaction is sort of coordinating, right? So it's reacting, but the reacting results and self-coordination. So the system to dissipative system that's consciousness is a four dimensional phase tracking system.
19:09
That is of, that is a mathematical.
19:22
Vortex, quantum reality. It's like it's like what I'm saying is like, it's like the brain is functionally a
19:39
A vortex of especially anticipative system. The inside the fabric of reality at the, at the quantum scale and at the client. Yeah, at the point of scale and so yeah. So, basically a conscious being represents the vortex of quantum reality or the world, or the whirlpool on the water, or the tornado, and the air.
20:16
Okay? So the sovereign represent like the quantum potential field and the potential field happens to potentially create grid like patterns 3D grid patterns of of planks of playing scale spaces that can change their phase to create the appearance of four dimensional patterns. That can then exert basically gravitational or or electromagnetic forces on one another right.
21:10
And I, and I wonder if gravity is not some
21:20
And some, some I want to say like what if it's like
21:31
What what if is like macroscale causality so. So going back to Tom beak band conciliants. One of the reasons I disagree with him was he seems to think that bottom up cuz quality casality is the holy grail. And so this, that the decision, you know, it's like for him.
21:58
The observer doesn't really exist. He passed it observer doesn't actually for him. The past of a preserver, doesn't have any power. The the person is the recipient of whatever the orchestra does you're not the chooser. You're just you have this character that you imagine is doing different things, rather he's scenarios and he compares.
22:23
The two basically like AI playing against itself when you're imagining. What might happen if you do certain things? But he compared it to like a, you know, like obviously the guy who's like, you can't compare this to a computer system compares to the the brain to AI, right? When compares to your imagination of your future choices to AI modeling future choices, right?
22:52
And but basically that he thinks that yes. So you are thinking about different decisions that you could take like in AI fighting against AI balancing high. Like you're making comparisons to see which scenario is has the best result, right? But ultimately that he thinks that you're like the powder, your powerless observer and it's the bottom up.
23:15
That is driving all the forces on top like the quantum frequency range driving all of the all the events at the macroscopic range. But the thing is it's not like causality is is is group is required to happen. Only it's at one scale over the other. It's not a question of whether it's a top-down causality or bottom-up causality in the brain.
23:46
I heat, I understand where it's points coming from. He's saying that basically the pipeline of data that comes to, the eyeball isn't gonna come closer to representing everything that you're seeing. When you look around yourself that you're just, not getting that much information. You're only getting little bits of information.
24:06
You're brain is feeling in the pieces and creating the experience of a world based on pond models. That it's learned in the what it's getting from. Your eyes is just triggering those existing models that you're running the matrix, simulation in your brain. And instead of interacting with reality at the level of detail, you think you're interacting with, you're just getting a little fuzzy bits little fuzzy dots.
24:28
That's what he thinks. And, you know, that, I think that at least him to imagine that. Yes. So you're so the cause you know, the that basically like at the root of it, you know, you're just imagine like that spark like a sparse dot, feels like a particle field, whereas there's nothing really solid, but there's lots of dots representing things any different colors or lines or edges in your mind, is through something, like people learning stitching them together making those those dots come together, right?
25:12
So, you know, that's all well and good. But that doesn't mean that that all all of the the the physics of causation in the brain are driven from, from the bottom up from low level connections towards higher level connections, because there are, you know, there's there are things that like, if you have atoms that are arranged in the formation of a basketball, the behavior of the basket ball will be different from from the behavior of another pilot atoms.
25:58
That is arranged in a different way. It could be a deflated basketball, right? So you have the atoms in a basketball and atoms in like a basketball that's been punctured. So has to know has no air. It's a flat basketball and the one of them bounces the other one doesn't.
26:17
But they both have the same number of atoms in the same types of atoms, right? It's just that the configuration has changed and the configuration only exists at the macroscopic level. But to configuration at the macroscopic level has causality, It doesn't have causality. That is only bottom up driven or only top down driven, it has causality at multiple scale simultaneously.
26:54
So the causality exists at all levels simultaneously. So you're going to have events that can only be triggered by the, by the configuration, by the 3D configuration, by the macroscopic, large-scale 3D configuration of loss of atoms. Those patterns that a high level have causality. So the observer isn't, it's, it's not it's, there's no such thing as a passive observer effect.
27:24
So his idea like you have bottom up capsule the observers just observing or not really in control of this. It's a movie. It's a back and enjoy it, right. That's kind of like, it's kind of like his attitude. I couldn't disagree. Like here's a thing, the idea of a passive observer that observer that has no control or is not engaged and making choices that observer doesn't exist.
27:54
That's the version of you that doesn't exist. That's like saying that's like that doesn't exist. So the thing that has no control doesn't exist and what does exist what I guess is not really you. Because you think you're the, you're the thing, that's the passive of your no action.
28:15
Is this is this live real time representation that exists across an only exists across four dimensions? Like if you in one second of time you would not exist in one second of time, you would have no consciousness. All right, I'm saying that you got the, this is only something, the experience of units, only something that happens in four dimensions because because because that's, that is what that is what is quantified and communicating.
29:04
And is the math that that organizer is producing. Notice to navigate the complex. World's. That is the ecosystem. We inhabit.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio