b0149y ctpr
(all audio notes like this one contain transcription errors that need to be fixed)

Temporally and spatially distributed phase difference representations
00:00
Really and especially distributed representations temporarily in spatially distributed. Representations. The idea that the parietal frontal lobes or the, the temple, parietal junction could be regulating consciousness because that part lights up when you're paying attention to something and it remains dark. If you're not thinking, if you're something like what you're not thinking about it, all right?
00:33
So it seems to indicate that it might indicate, you know, it looks like it. Indicates that consciousness is building up, right? If there's a lighting up and you're becoming aware of something at the same time, become conscious of and
00:56
That's interesting was gonna say right? Or frontal networks.
09:27
Oops. I guess I'm recording let's say that the TPJ is sliding up that just represents. Maybe that a lot of brain areas are right or lighting up that there's they're working together, so it could maybe that there's a correlation with with the brain pain. Maybe it's an indicator of but it's not like what I'm saying is like, instead of it, instead of it being like the coordinator of the football team, it could be just like the LED of the football team, all right?
10:01
Like just the it's like yeah, so football team when they're on it, when they're playing their game and they're paying attention, they have this LED that goes off. So, it's just in the temporal prior to junction and that just like signals to the whole group we're on right now or something.
10:26
So maybe your theory of mind network, has an LED located in the TBJ, like what I'm saying. Like maybe, maybe the whole maybe huge amounts of the brain. I including that area are coordinating simultaneously to and you know that there again they're LEDs because it is the TVJ. So, So the action potentials are your brains LEDs.
11:03
Neurons. We'll see other neurons as LEDs basically so they can so you're going to have a neuron. Who's that's positioned to watch. You're gonna have a whole bunch of nerves that are positioned to just watch as brainwaves pass through other neurons, right? They can notice that because they can notice the train of your ass back on.
11:31
It's like seeing a string of LEDs go off. Right, that it's the. We're like I'm relating. This, your eyes are saying, light. Like your neurons are seeing faces. Pays different trends. Frequency changes, and these have temporal spatial distribution.
11:59
See, your neurons are seeing phases with temperature distribution and their emitting distribution. And it could be that they're admitting electric and magnetic. Phase distributions. Like mechano sound wave. Distributions. The neurons have also vibrating so there could be a mechanical wave, It could be a mechanical way that could be a sound wave.
12:34
There could be and like, they're could be, you know, I mean, that's all time magnetic way. They could be an electric consultant. Electric wave.
12:47
There is multiple ways that in your mind can express itself in terms of like chemical transmitters with. You know, it could release one one vessel sack but very transmitters in it.
13:10
Winner, instead of Colleen GABA, transmitters near transmitters that will start to build up on in per basketball, right? And then so maybe there's a large, there's a lot that maybe there's
13:39
Maybe there's a change in the potassium, gradient and somehow, and it's not able to and there's some sort of place where it's a maybe
14:01
The potassium perceptor is inhibited or something. And the potassium takes longer to stop the to reset the cell through set. The polarization of the song. Okay. So the action potential is larger because of that because the potassium is somehow slowed down. I'm not sure how, but
14:45
But it could be related to
14:52
Right, be hours. Just trying to think, you know potassium could be related to.
15:04
Yeah, Davidson app is in the dendrite because the dent because the synapse at the synapse isn't a dent, right? Or inhibited if the potassium synapses are inhibited. Then potassium is going to be more slowly. Repolarized the cell and that means the action made the last longer. And that means that more of the.
15:29
But a macro vesicles settings to saxophones are released. And so with the neuron on the receiving end, when they receives a lot more of its an acids get covered by neurotransmitters and so it receives a larger signal, right? Ever sees a brighter like brighter light. So if you look around and you see brighter light, you think, well, part of your brain is representing that brighter light to you.
16:09
By blasting, the representative neurons where that targeted light is at blasting that with, with receptors. I'm sorry with neurotransmitters. I think they're getting smashed in the short term transmitters because the because the sodium is you know being allowed to flood in but the but potassium is being inhibited from a statement and it's causing the the action potential to release more festivals and that's like that is a way for neurons themselves to basically
17:11
That is a way for heading around to like,
17:18
