b0158y ctpr
(audio transcription needs fixing)
Neurons Dendrite Threshold
00:00
How does a brainwave become an action potential that we can measure?
00:09
I mean, how does, how does an action potential? How did two action, potentials and how to how to, how to ten action? Potentials. Join up to become a brainwave or is it not the actual potentials? But instead the electricity that a dendrite and put the cell membrane leaks, Is it the electricity that celebrating cell membrane leaks within your arms membrane leaks?
00:43
Is that what's creating the brain wave? Or is it the action, potentials? I think it's the action. Potentials. That would make more sense because there's energy leaking from the neurons in the process of dissipating. Out of the neuron. All right, you know, that's constantly dissipating out electricity, but sometimes it gets to much of electricity and then it really shoots out the electricity, like, nervously neurons nervously, shoot out energy when then, in an action potent, and they are shooting out the entire action center.
01:33
But it's getting broken up. It's getting broken off and a little bit of pieces, so that I can be distributed radioly along its branches instead. Along a single cable. He see each neurons, this branching out the signal, and that's the reason for the chemical transmitters, it's not the chemical transmitters, then it's not, the goal isn't to slow down the speed of the neuron.
02:12
The goal of the neurotransmitters is to spread the signal, radiantly to many different upstream neurons or downstream as or both actions because a backwards action potential would also spread radio e along the branches of a dendrite.
02:43
But what's interesting is that you could have the indirect could just shoot signals down, one of it's channels. You could have one's then dirty branch fire backwards, right? And so that gives a higher level neuron. The ability to pass special information, along the single branch of the denture to other neurons.
03:19
So so there's some selection like instead of sending the signal.
03:27
Radially to all its radially to all branches simultaneously and equal amounts, the path of the signal. When it goes backwards, at least, if it's initiated in the branch of dent, right? And going backwards is not going to be going out of all the dendritic branches, just one of them, right?
03:52
So if that it meant happens, so
03:59
The that what I mean I guess you know you could even have like one neuron. Okay, pass on. Could be passing signals upstream to a dendrite. And that dendrite may if it doesn't could represent a second threshold because like, if that so the first threshold is like, yeah, passing some signals onward and the dendrite on the receiving end.
04:32
Could just be counting it could just say eat French. Each branch could be counting the individual, so imagine yeah. Each branch of the dendrite is an excitatory branch or yeah, so just imagine that. But so, technically, each branch could be any excited to worry branch or an inhibitory branch depending on whether it is full of calcium or into, depending on whether it's full of potassium or sodium, right?
05:12
Because if you have potassium receptors,
05:22
Now, yeah, I need to know. Is there. Is it? Because? Yeah, because if you have potassium aceters,
05:37
To the data branches. They're going to be in taking an x and but then the intercept is they're going to be exchanging, potassium, and sodium. I show you. So invariably you might have some dendritic branches. That can people arise and some that can repolarize, but they can basically act as a sort of like tracker for the signals down below.
06:10
So like it like like how many like each branch could be collecting? My comedy? I sodium ions to my receiving. It's the physical transference of sodium. Ions is the literal manifestation of counting in terms of like there's an event that happens when it goes above a certain threshold, like an excitatory.
06:41
Neuron. But that in event could be an inhibitory event or an excitatory event, okay? If either way there's an event that happens when that dendritic ranch goes over a certain threshold in terms of the electricity, it gets because the branch itself can fire and the synapse itself can spike snap to expect.
07:08
So, the synapse itself has a threshold for when it will spike in order to. So the synapse must be also like constantly dissipating energy at a certain rate. And if it receives enough energy then it's going to dissipate it. If the synas receives enough energy, it's going to dissipate it and But, here's the thing, if it's synapse can spike, but it's not always spiky.
07:48
That means it's there. Certain there's a certain threshold for when it spikes. So, therefore this synapse by virtue of being below. Threshold is able to count, all right? And that threshold can be modified. An example of the threshold of a neuron being modified on the macro scale and with a pyramidal neuron is that the the likelihood of it that it's going to fire how close it is to.
08:21
The tipping point can be increased or decrease based upon modifications to the, the Soma or the dendritic branches, by, by a different, by different neurons that are connected either to the some orative dendritic feet, right? So you have nurses, you have with the criminal neurons. There's this neurons that are connected at the dendritic feet of the neuron, and then there's neurons that are sort of branching in to someone from the side.
09:05
And the idea is that they can shift the neuron from being ready to to fire or from being very resistant to firing. And so they can like,
09:24
Right. What's interesting? Is that what you're getting with each of the branches or synaptic connections between neurons is a way. For one side is way for maybe each side of the neuron to count. What the activity of the other neurons to count? The activity is receiving from the other neurons, or to track or to be physically the embodiment of a physical manifestation of of awareness through movement, manifestation of Western men, That becomes
10:21
Every time it's a reflector of water, it's there physical manifestation of movements that changes. The, the reflections in terms of I'll let your magnetic frequency in terms of the shape, the shapes of electromagnetic frequencies and then in turn and that reflection. And then in turn is detected by the end transform and encoded by the detected, by an encoded, by an embodied.
10:59
By he, the chemical substrate that is being impressed upon by the electromagnetic reflection that is generating. So it's the interaction between the electromagnetic reflection and the chemical foundation of the brain that is Creating the experience of consciousness of awareness.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio