=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0153y The seeker Neurons Representation Map
First recorded: 2021-10-09T19:44:13.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/afe4c53e-5f56-489d-a2ce-57af781db53b
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So the, um, okay, so it's, it's the, um, it's that, uh, so consciousness is like, um, a series of frames that your hippocampus is playing back, coordinating pieces of, uh, of, basically, um, regional activity in the
that takes the shape of a soliton vector pattern that represents the scaled-up representation or fractal of, uh, a similar but smaller soliton vector pattern in a piece in a cortical column
that in turn represents a scaled-up soliton vector pattern, um, in a neuron, um, that has been activated.
And since many different neurons are recording, um, essentially different slices of that same pattern, it's not holographic.
It's, uh, it's, uh, it's, um, tomographic, right?
The distribution, the sparse distributed representation of patterns is not holographic, it's tomographic.
So that each variant or version of the pattern as represented by different neurons is representing, like, a different view of the object that's being learned or the sequence that's being learned.
So that there is a, uh, a spatial representation, uh, that's, that is, that is learned by the network as a whole, and then represented to the brain, to a higher level of the, of the brain, to other neurons when that sequence fires.
Uh, so, so what you have is, um, is that the firing of lots of, uh, neurons is something that, um, neural circuits can, in four, four dimensions, uh, have a, have a, create, uh, create and remember and replay.
Uh, uh, tomographic, uh, tomographic, tomographical maps that then, um, serve as the foundation for, um, you know, attention, like, basically, like, attention schema via the, the active, activated and deactivated, um, neurons in the, the, uh, temporal, uh, pattern.
To be, uh, um, um, to have their configuration, uh, sort of change, because what they're representing that corresponds to the, um, the representation of the external world.
Basically, like, the, the, um, tomographic spectral map represents the, uh, the mapped, the map of, your map of reality, um, but it represents, um, your map of reality,
both in terms of, both in terms of, like, what you're paying attention to in each moment, and what you're not paying attention to in each moment.
So that what you're paying attention to in each moment is changing, based, corresponding to the incoming signals, but providing, like, a four-dimensional map of consciousness that, um, that, you, that, um, predicts real reality in as much spectrum and detail as your brain can do it.
So, um, so, along with your, uh, muscle movements and your other capabilities that you can have highly coordinated movements that, um, but along with that, uh, along with that, uh, along with the, uh, fact of, uh, of creating this map, uh,
uh, this map that you can feel because there's multiple kinds, uh, there's multiple kinds of representation, including, uh, electrical and magnetic soliton, uh, phase representation, combining together to create this map, but also, um, you know, representation of the muscle activity.
But that, but these, but what it is, is, like, the very, the very fact of, uh, that what causes this representation, the sensory representation, predictive coding, is also causing your brain to calculate predictions for various kinds of patterns.
And, um, and, um, and, um, and that, so, and so, that leads to, sort of, like, the mechanism of choices at every level.
It's that, um, uh, which you, sort of, predict happening, uh, that appeals to you more, right?
Let's say that you're more attracted to the fun, to good stuff happening, because, um, there's this trend of your brain predicting that it's going to fire, right?
So, neurons predicting that it's going to fire.
There's no sense in predicting that you're not going to fire.
So, it's just, sort of, like, am I going to fire?
Am I going to fire?
And it's just, sort of, like, um, that creates this, sort of, like, seeking.
The prediction creates this, sort of, seeking.
The seeking of, of the seeker.
Because there is this, basically, that's the, the seeking is the inversion of prediction.
Right?
It is prediction.
And, here we go.
And, so, you get to this place where, uh, closet.
You get to a place where there is this, sort of,
And, then, no, okay, that's the place where the visual to find.
And, then, it's, then, what?
