b0153y ctpr
(audio)
the seeker, neurons, representation, map
00:00
So, the Okay, so it's it's that. So it's like series of friends that your hippocampus is playing coordinating pieces of activity. Basically, regional activity in the takes the shape of a solid toned, vector pattern, that represents the scaled up representation or fractal of a similar but smaller so it's on back your pattern and a piece in a cortical column that in turn represents a scaled up all the time vector pattern and a neuron that has been activated.
01:20
And since many different neurons are recording essentially different slices of that same pattern, it's not holographic. It's it's tomographic, right? The distribution, the sparse distributed representation of patterns is not holographic. It's time to graphic so that each variant or version of the pattern as represented by different neurons is representing like a different view of the object that's being learned or the sequence that's being learned.
02:01
So that there is a a spatial representation that's that is three, that is learned by the network as a whole and then represented to the brain to a higher level of the, of the brain to other neurons when that sequence fires. So, so which you have is the is that the firing of lots of neurons, is something that neural circuits can enforce four dimensions by have a have a great crate and remember and replay tomographic pomegraphical maps and that.
03:03
Then serve as the foundation for, you know, attention like basically like attention schema via the the act of activated and deactivated neurons and the the temporal pattern to be have their configuration sort of change. Because what they're representing that corresponds to here the representation of the external world. Basically like the the tomographic spectral map represents the
04:05
The not the the map of your map of reality. But it represents your map of reality to both in terms of like what you're paying attention to and each moment and what you're not paying attention to in each moment. So that, what you're paying attention to in each moment is changing based corresponding to the incoming signals, but providing like a four-dimensional map of consciousness that that you, that predicts real reality.
04:48
And as much spectrum in detail as your brain can do it. So along with your muscle movements and your other capabilities that you can have highly coordinated movements that. But along with that, along with the fact of creating this map, this map, you can feel because there's multiple kinds, there's multiple kinds of representation including electrical and magnetic soliton, phase representation, that is combining together to create this map.
05:46
But also you know representation of a muscle activity but with this but what it is is like the very the very fact of that what causes this reputation. The sensory representation predictive coding is also causing your brain to calculate predictions for various kinds of patterns. And and that's so that into that leads to sort of like the mechanism of choices at every level.
06:24
It's that which you sort of predict happening, That appeals to you more. All right, let's say that you're more attracted to the fun. It's a good stuff happening, because There's this trend of your brain predicting that it's going to fire right? So now it's predicting that's going to fire.
07:03
There's no sense in predicting that you're not going to fire. So it's a sort of like am I going to fire? Am I going to fire? And it's a sort of like that creates the sort of like seeking the prediction creates a sort of seeking the seeking of the seeker because there is this, basically, that's the seeking is the inversion of prediction, right?
07:29
It is prediction and here we go. And so, you get to this place where Closet, You get to replace where there is this sort of
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio