=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0154y Attention Schema Graph Network Map Neurons
First recorded: 2021-10-09T19:18:35.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/6c114e6c-9c55-40cc-9a6a-dcb3685ce58f
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So the electromagnetic spectrograph serves as a templospatial virtual tectum, a neat orderly map of the sensory field or perceptual field.
Okay, so the interesting thing is that the tectum of a frog is a good analogy for the graph, for the spectrograph, creating a map for the coordination of muscle, the coordination of muscle movement within a scene, scene.
The resolution is important because it basically serves as a map, a surface map, for the coordination of muscle movements.
So consciousness serves as a map for muscle movements.
Michael Essay's attention schema sort of like illustrates how neurons can selectively pay attention to certain areas of the map when they are firing, basically, but also inhibiting the surrounding neurons to be quiet.
We're basically inhibiting their tonic firing.
That draws attention to part of the map.
But the map is a map of the receptive field.
It's actually a map of the potential receptive field.
Because the receptive field is like what's in front of your eye, for example, or what's in front of your ear.
But that's like place cell information.
The receptive field that you're not paying attention to, you're still mapping, and that is like grid cell information.
And that's like a map of where you're not.
So the place cell is like a map of where you are, and the grid cell is like a map of where you're not.
So that you have a sense of, you have a navigating sense of where you are and where you're not simultaneously.
If IIT is a skeleton, it's a skeleton inside the...
If IIT is a sketch, it's the sketch of a skeleton of complex...
What the resolution of brain activity could be per interval based upon the complexity of the connections with the ability to create...
the maximal number of patterns, the maximal number of memorable spectral patterns.
So if IIT is like a vague sort of like allusion to the temporal spatial connectivity of many...
that leads to what could be a measurement of...
what could be a future tool in the measurement of the resolution of the map of a frame of consciousness...
at one particular scale, at the macro scale.
Okay.
But it could, it could allude to also a map of micro scale frames.
So...
That's a good point.
That's a good point, it's a good point.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Alright, thanks.
