b0155y ctpr

(audio)
Soliton Waves Neurons Pattern Frequency
00:00
So the dendrite is noticing the cadence of the incoming signals and it's noticing like so if another neuron below, it is going to depolarize or
00:32
For it's going to become inhibited from depolarizing. And either situation, the reason other neurons noticed that is because they were going to, they were expecting a certain like they're expecting a certain cadence, right? And that cadence is the time frequency and the tonic frequency is being so there. So with their with their feeling first and foremost is their own skirt, okay?
01:13
But their own personal feeling which is creating the creating and a magnetic wave. By the way, it's creating an it feels a dinner on feels its own electrical surge, but that's passing on the salt on a way to the two other neurons. So other neurons are receiving the solution away.
01:42
And but this also in a way was also going to, maybe it will split up over the different branches of the both. The all of all the branches, both in the dendrite and on the exothermal, branches, and go and it'll go out and every direction because it's like and including to the, the Soliton Wave
02:20
So it's sending sending salt in a way along your leader damage.
02:29
So it's able to send but it doesn't send us alternate, but I think perhaps it doesn't send us all it's underway to other neurons. This end of the nerve, transmitters instead. And then there are transmitters are transmitted in timing. All right, so that's carrying the type of frequency of how of our frequency is carving dot matrix and the oscillator, right?
03:03
Whether it's inhibited or excited, that's covering the dot metrics and the oscillators. The frequencies of the neurons doing, is that? That's where the awareness of coming from, but the sultan waves are passing signals. Maybe to from muscles. But anyway, it allows the neuron to send signals not between neurons but over but just over a legal denture sites.
03:43
Oh, and interesting ring that cell turn away.
03:59
I cannot hear frequency. I could turn like a piano tune could be playing a scent like this out and like audible frequency but now audible to human years. It's sort of like it's an electromagnetic frequency that only
04:27
That's only sort of felt or sort of like because it's in a vibrate the, the illegal danger say and the nerves that it's connected to
04:48
So it's kind of think of it as like the 9 is making a drum beat. That's that's been spread from neurontin on via interlinked over dangerous ice. So it's a drum beat but the drum beat that like admits from like a certain point and then probably spreads radially across its network branch network branches of legal, denture sites or the neurons.
05:17
And so in that sense of like a graph of solid time, waves, soliciting a base communication.
05:36
And let's say that the, the neurons are the transmitters and receivers at this wave. But but interestingly the illegal dangerous sites also have synapse, right? The receptors that can communicate with their arms. So that would mean that an illegal dendrite could also count. And therefore, if it can count it, basically, if it can track, it's, it's if you can, if it can predict its own firing, which is accounting.
06:17
That's it's predicting its own firing. When it's gonna fire, you know, then it could have chapters can. It's able to say, well, I've seen this pattern of activity before this means that I'm going to count. And so the dendrites count, does the counting and remembers different counts. It remembers different patterns backend.
06:43
I mean, there's a certain, yeah, certain pattern but if you use like yeah, if you just, if you could just create a graph that like plots of the nodes by their connections around a circle so it doesn't look like narrow anatomy like in like in all like in the or lofts sports talk.
07:11
The last one is talk arisen is booked networks of the brain. Just creating a a graph, this as well. If something has receptors, then it can listen because it listens with its receptors when it receives ions. So it's listening versus counting which is the same thing.
07:53
But it's able to represent really complex, so I think the soliton way if is the narrative of consciousness. I think that. That's where that's the thought stream. That's where thoughts. That's where the sequences of thoughts are shaped one. Way that a time like every word that I pronounced would be a sequence of thought, right?
08:40
So that's like yeah, wow. So that implies that salsa waves makeup your inner voice and they're the basis of language and speaking and they're the basis of inner thought and they help to coordinate your brain activity. But there it. But there, it's like they're emitted simultaneously to your neurons are detecting.
09:18
It's like your neurons are detecting and transmitting signals. They're listening and speaking to each other with these chemicals synapses in these electrical charges. But at the point that, you know, but the next layer of that is assault and wave and that's where we have our inner thought space.
10:00
So, for salt and away is going to refurbating with the same hurts frequency as the action potential, okay? Is the at the shape of the action potential is going to define this the this, the results and wave mission. And this also and it could be that they the neurons are so complex.
10:34
They can represent any sort of the second alphabet of for representing. Sounds probably based on the networks are the brain pattern. So, your neurons would be forming a certain alphabet would be, which would be creating certain. So the topological pattern patterns merging in the brain, represent different parts of the graph.
11:08
Alphabet 13. Symbols that represent different sort of modalities are different letters that the brain could use to construct
11:24
Thoughts with right? It's like there's 13 different words that 13 different letters that all thoughts are constructed from and and in I mean, okay, so like but now there's something hard because look it's like well the letters in your alphabet, you've been English alphabet or 26 letters, okay. And but many of them are just like combinations of lines.
11:55
Might like an A is consists of three lines. A B has curves. So, these curves D has occurred and a line. And so now we're talking about, okay? Well, a lot of them have lines and and and, you know like hey as it's just lines, ale has just lines MS.
12:18
Just lines and has this lines. Some of them have just curves, you know? Oh,
12:28
Some maybe maybe over the other one has just curves, but like, okay. So then they all have then the rest of them have like combination of like curves and lines but you know our and P and Q and my asses and that is this. Another one that has just curves.
12:52
You is you is is used just occur, guys. I mean you could think of it as a curve in two lines but it also figured it's just occur. These two lines. W is too lines. X is two lines. Y is two lines. See is the reload. So, I mean it's like, yeah.
13:33
I mean, this it's like, I mean that they identified by 13, different possible. I need to look at that more to understand what that means. Like wait a second if you can just like if you can make any graph out of 13 letters, you can definitely make any graph out of just like lines and and just out of lines or lines and curves.
14:03
Love it. But I guess some I guess. That's one way to I guess you could have an outfit. So yeah, so I mean I think the alphabet is like hurts frequencies like the they're the number of variations then we're variations that I neuron. Can that an action potential can fire at maybe between point zero two hertz and six hundred parts, right?
14:37
Maybe I need to look that up to make sure that I do is that the action potential and can be between those hurts only, but that represents like every possible.
14:57
Every possible. I mean, it could be the maybe, maybe the hurts is what we see. I hate like maybe it, maybe the smoothie the electro. The maybe he would have the salts on way, sort of, like, explains how how voice. How? I mean, it's my voice made out of salt on waves, right?
15:33
That's what I'm thinking. Like, I'm what has my voice box work? How does my voice box? Make sound. Am I vibrating my vocal cords and do my vocal cords represent solids on waves or now because it's high. It's audible right? Hearing that. Are you just know? Like, if you
16:06
So I think I would, I would think that a brain would be completely silent to a microphone. I think I would think that a brain doesn't actually make big audible noise. I'm not sure.
16:24
That the thing that, okay.
16:39
So the dendrite is noticing the cadence. It's going to be coming. Inhibited from the pull up from the horizon and either situation, we telling us that this is because they were expecting, they were expecting, neurotransmitters at autonic frequency, and then they either they eat those neurotransmitters in order to complete a certain pattern.
17:10
So say they so the dendritic remembered a pattern, where it received a certain number of transmitters, and then another number, and then another number that another number, and there was a certain temporal pattern happening. But let's say this and maybe the pattern one part of the pattern drops off because whatever neurons was inhibited then it remembers that part.
17:34
Okay, so it's like four, it's like four. I got four electrons in a row from this guy and then he gives me nothing. And then the and then the guy next to him gives me a whole bunch of neurotransmitters. Right. You know? And and, and so yeah, a whole bunch from multivariable ways.
18:12
So as the receiving neuron, I have this picture of if I'm connected to many downstream neurons and let's say one of them. Does a phaser firing gives me three vesicles but it inhibits the others from firing so I get no vesicles then suddenly my attention shifts to that one neuron.
18:36
Right. Our share and that one arm becomes a building block in my attention. So, that becomes the light that appears in my vision.
19:05
But it appears in my appears in my in my vision, but my vision is inside my head and it appears inside my head to other neurons because it's apparent to there's a whole bunch of neurons that are three steps away from every other neuron, right? It's like every now has three steps.
19:30
I remember. I'm not so whenever so. So they have so many in common, the so many nerves and so many in common. So there's like a whole bunch of neurons that noticed from Jamie fires, not just one person. It's like a whole bunch, notice a whole oscillator notices, right?
19:49
Because they all have like, they'll have many connections through each other. So, whole bunch of neurons. Notice all the ones on that neurons external. That's a lot, right? And, and because a whole bunch of notice, they can all learn the same patterns. They dang fired Bob fired gym card.
20:09
So all the neurons, learn all the patterns, all the neurons and all of patterns. They all learn a sequence in which Jane Bob and Joe fired. And then Bob, Kevin no one and Mary and June 5, right? So we have another sequence of neurons firing, and the entire neural circuit, or the entire portable column is simultaneous simultaneously learning every basic firing pattern because it's just a physical memory of being track by
21:06
Expectations. Encoded in adventure. The dendrite literally changes to match the patterns. It has received in the past it's literally just every time it gets a pattern that pattern becomes encoding and dendrite the injury is like a little camera that captures patterns. Okay. But then, but it really captures and learns patterns that trigger it to fire.
21:40
Because those are the most interesting patterns, it must interesting. Because that's that's those are the patterns that create the, the shakes, the shakes are when the whole neuron shakes because it's basically had an explosion somewhat exploding and sending and electrical surge that creates a and magnetic wave. That's also some way of it creates a tiny piece of your voice.
22:20
A millisecond of reports have your inner voice but across also send like also transit be transmitting signals, that move your fingers and that move your
22:41
Entire body, move your your layerings, your voice. You're gonna have a lot of your body coordinate with salts on waves. And I mean, that could be, it could be one and you can have a lot of feelings happening, like, your neurons are gonna
23:12
Where you shouldn't shouldn't be feeling anything inside your brain. I mean it should be just data, I guess. I don't know. Actually I do think I feel things inside my head.
23:29
Think.
23:39
It's not nerve ending. So, I mean it's not like
23:51
Your brains should notice signals if they ever segment disrupted by an injury or something. Like, in a case of gauge, when a poor went straight through his head because
24:13
That type of whole bunch of memories that are sort of torn apart and ripped away.
24:25
I would think or a whole bunch of like I don't know, it's weird to say that because like here's the thing is, you're what you're suggesting. Is that like a lot of different neurons are learning the same patterns but the thing is that they're all for each located spatially in a different space relative to one another.
24:55
So each neurons, the amount of information that each neuron receives is going to be different, right? So, each one is receiving information from a different
25:14
Area frame and the signals are going to be different because some of the areas are closer to the receptive fields or the the inputs, the sensor inputs, like the visual, like the eyes and the ears and that and the and a scan like some of the neurons are closer to the to the sensory impasse but and some and some of the neurons are very far away.
25:46
And so that means that the signals that each group of neurons receives is going to be and their friendly light signals are different from from touch signals, right? The the frequencies and the temple and spatial frequencies. Sorry. The temple and spatial distribution of frequencies is for each of the sensors, is going to be slightly different and the temple, spatial.
26:32
And that's for separates. Actually, also, all this other things we can sense like it's a separate. The feeling of inner thought from smell from emotions, from other kinds of feelings from testosterone. From as estrogen like all these feelings are different in terms of the temple, spatial coordinates and the frequencies.
27:11
At each of the temple, spatial coordinates, all of our different like smell and vision. And, and hearing and emotions are all different. In terms of the temporal and special, the graph like temple, and spatial 3D graph of temple and special frequencies over time, right? And that's what separates all the different kinds of knowledge is that they have different different patterns that that they're about that they're evoking.
28:01
And so this is important because like I said there's just perception going on in multiple levels right. There's I honor trumpet receptors and there's metallic tropic receptors and there's it's interesting because with tablet fabric receptors don't allow the passage of
28:32
Ions.
28:35
But they do something and maybe it has to do with Solar time lyrics.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio