b0156y ctpr
(audio transcription needs fixing)
 Paying attention to what you are seeing Brain Neurons 

00:00
The idea is that. Let's say that I changed. Like I had one idea of myself. Had one idea of what I need to be. And when I do, what about my ego was, and then I went and I experienced the change, and the change felt like automatic, like I didn't do it, like I was just forced into a change.
00:37
Like my information criteria, my prediction change. My information criteria changed.
00:51
My the way my brain was pretty together information changed and that automatically like I don't know. Something happened. There was like several events that happened. I had a lot of thoughts of a certain type of pattern and like like building up arguments against against and against what I really wanted like hours thinking I was trying to decide what I really wanted and how I really wanted to be and trying to make a case for and against and the case against one.
01:45
Okay? So like the case. So the case for had never been fully considered when when it was considered it was overwhelming. In the case for was like, yeah, this is like I'm really for this but then the case again started growing and it kept growing until I didn't want to do that anymore.
02:07
And then, and I feel like I never accepted that as a choice. Like, I didn't feel like a choice, it felt like I saw my self change. I witnessed a transformation like an electromagnetic transformation of my face.
02:28
And and then I went through more changes. There are other changes and I'm not I'm not getting into specifics here but I things change like unexpected thing my ideas about the world change and it was like reaching another stage of your development as a human being. Like you know when you we knew like you know like the maturity of or someone in the high school is different from the maturity of someone who's who's in college, right?
03:16
And there's like a there's like stages of development or reliance of development to what is the but the integral no not interval. Something like spiral dynamics, right? Spirals dynamics. Is that you can have all these different development lines and different ways that your mind will transform over time to take on greater complexity to be able to handle different tasks.
03:47
You have a person who can run, you know, conference the size of the ES as far more capability than the average high school student. I mean, there is a massive amount of knowledge at the person. Running the giant conference has acquired knowledge and expertise and skill. And they've their mind is very experienced at what they do, right?
04:09
That's professional level. You have to be great at organizing and you have to be able to execute a plan very well. And you gotta have a great team of people who are who are just as hardworking as you are. And just this competent. And if it's an incredible feat to like with some people do it, organizing a massive multi-day events around the world you know, or organizing massive companies.
04:50
That's another asset thing. Like, faceobok is a massive complex, right company. Brilliant people doing brain things, right? I mean the oculus is just amazing, right? This is like so awesome documents and So regardless of you know how the brain works, how a neurons are are collecting and transmitting information to one another and then and then collectively as a network.
05:34
As an oscillating network being able to put all the small patterns together into a single picture, right? Like you, they has this, this has to be happening because you were seeing a single picture when you look around with your eyes or when you when you, when you, I don't know it, when you're just like, even if you don't have eyes, you are experiencing a consistent reality, you know, that has sound and has touch and has all your smell.
06:08
And as has, you know, you have in a conscious experience based upon the sense is that you do have. Maybe it's not, maybe it's, you know, it's different situations out there, right? But,
06:38
But the whole idea is that, you know, we were looking at two things. One is, how did your brain make representations and and maybe it's this and maybe it's a maybe this process that I've described and maybe not, maybe it's a different process. But either way, it makes sense that you're brain is creating representations and it makes sense that your brain is also putting those representations together and a four-dimensional experience, we get three-dimensional, space and one-dimensional time.
07:20
And your brain is putting it together like that for all your senses to move about, you know, I think about we gotta discuss about how all your senses are spatial and temporal, like the peak, the peak of a feeling, the peak of the smell, the peak of of a trumpet sound, right?
07:42
The peak of touch. Okay, there's so much that's so much, you know, to discuss.
07:56
And in terms of, you know, when the, where the feeling is, is it in, your trust is in your arm is in your fingertip. Where's the pain, where's the emotion, is the emotion and your neck is in your lungs. Is it in your heart is in your head, is in your feet is behind?
08:22
You? Is it in the past? Is it strong? Is it weak? Is it faded is a small. These are like the mental characteristics. We're describing the progress. Describing properties pertaining to his face and time. You know, where is it relative to you? And when is it? And what's what is and when is the pattern large and when is it small and doesn't move like these are spatial characteristics and temporal characteristics, right?
08:52
And it's what your brain is really good at modeling. Four dimensional space time. It can model it through neurons that fire or talk, or it can perceive it by other neurons who are paying attention in order to predict when they're going to fire in the sequence because that's called predictive coding.
09:17
That's paying attention to what it's been doing. It's you paying attention to what you're seeing, okay?
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio