=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0166y Neuron Pattern dopamine Brain
First recorded: 2021-10-03T04:34:25.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/6165f408-9a0a-4c84-8938-25bc501cad8e
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
The reason Hertz patterns are the canvas of consciousness is because that's what's being transmitted, that's what's being received.
If that's the only thing your brain is seeing, and the only thing your brain is sending, then that's it. That's the canvas.
At the end of the day, your brain is only seeing these Hertz patterns.
These, um, but it's not, it's not simply Hertz, okay, it's not simply Hertz, it's, um, coincidence patterns.
Alright, so when a neuron, so when a neuron fires, right, there's, there's, part of the memory process involves, uh, your, your, you know, you have some amount of, I gotta figure out how does, how the neuron receives dopamine.
Yeah, that's how, I gotta figure that part out.
How does the neuron receive dopamine?
Because at some point, dopamine will, is secreted, which caught, which will cause, which will trigger neurons to fire.
But in the, but it's also necessary, in the presence of neurons, for memory function to work.
This has nailed down recently.
So, so, like, we're talking about neurotransmitters, and we're talking about, you know, a lot of the receptors have GABA.
Um, acetylcholine, different kinds of receptors.
So, maybe dopamine applies to dopaminogenic neurons, and that other neurons are, like, because, so maybe dopamine is not essential to memory, but neurotransmitters are essential to memory.
And, so maybe they have identified one case in which dopamine is an essential part of the process of receptors, right, because, because you, because, um, dopamine is going to feed neural receptors, right, like, the outside receptors on the presynaptic branch.
So, that is, um, that is, um, I think, I think it's the case that, that, so we have the cell base.
There's ions that are in the cell body.
Okay.
And then, there's the neurotransmitters that are inside the multivesicular sacs.
Multivesicular bodies.
Okay.
So, those neurotransmitters are, like, dopamine, GABA, and acetylcholine.
Those are the chemicals that are in between neurons that either sit in, um, multivesicular bodies, or basically inside vesicle sacs.
Right?
So, the vesicle sacs contain, like, dopamine, or GABA, or those, so those are vesicle sacs.
Those vesicle sacs, um, are going to be sort of, like, they're going to sit, they're basically going to sit inside the exit terminal until the neuron needs to fire.
And then, those chemicals are going to be pushed into the synaptic cleft, which is going to push them onward to the synapses of other neurons.
And some of the, therefore, and, and, and, and what will happen is, some of the synapses of other neurons will, um, will be, will be receiving the acetylcholine.
Or the GABA, or the gopivine.
And that's going to trigger, that's going to trigger, uh, some, uh, downstream neurons to fire.
Not all of them, but some of them.
Um, out of, out of, uh, their temporal oscillation.
So that induces a phase, like a phase variance.
Okay.
And, um, so let's say that the, um, the action of a neuron firing is going, it is the receipt of a pattern that a neuron has recognized.
And, and, and, say that the process that a neuron goes through, of having, of, of, of, that one neuron goes through, of having fired based upon some lesser number of neurons that fired, because it received a certain pattern.
But that firing is the memory, because of the formation.
The firing, and the changes that happen to the neuron as a result of that firing.
So that means the, the new proteins, the cysts, which is going to change the electrodynamic weight.
The density of the electrodynamic weight that's assigned to that, to that neuron.
Right?
Because now there's additional protein, so the structure's larger.
The structure has more mass, unless the structure has more density.
More electromagnetic density.
So more protein, increase more protein, a new protein, new protein synthesis is created.
And that neuron becomes, gains a higher rank.
Right?
And that, but specifically the patterns that, that neuron has learned, gain a higher rank.
Right?
Because it has learned, good patterns.
Patterns that are in use.
And, and at the same time, you're going to see the, the neuron, so, so maybe because it's a higher rank, that means that neuron is going to be more likely to fire.
And so if it's a pyramidal neuron, you might see the, you might see the, you might see some changes in the number of connections to the soma, or the number of connections to the lower dendritic branches, that change the firing rate, that increase the firing rate of the neuron.
Or increase, like, or increase, like, it's readiness to fire.
Because, and, and, and so that would mean that that, so that effectively means that, that pattern is expected to reoccur sooner.
And the pattern is represented by, by a, by a higher level neuron that, the pattern expectation is represented by higher, by any number of higher level neurons.
If, if, if, if, would be triggered to fire if certain specific lower level neurons fire.
So it's like, yeah, so which neurons am I going to fire from?
It's going to be the ones that, um, are connected to specific lower level firing.
So the lower level firing is, we're indicating that a pattern has been received.
And, and, and, and, and, and, to take this a step further, I am saying that, you know, basically you, you have incoming patterns come in, and they come in, and you have, like, the first layer is going to pass on the entire pattern.
Right, and, and, and the subsequent layers are going to continue, they're, they're like, yeah, I'm going to accept the whole pattern and pass it on.
Like, the whole pattern travels through, like, received patterns just sort of, like, travel through one node after another.
Like, they just, one neuron repeats that pattern to the next one, the next neuron repeats that pattern to the next one, the next one repeats that pattern to the next one.
And patterns travel across the entire brain. They just get replicated in cascading sequences. That's what I think.
So the brain, so you have lots of different layers of the brain that are each sort of, um, re-representing that pattern.
But also, but, but, but not, not exactly. Like, it's like, um, each layer is going to represent that pattern at a different temporal stage.
So that's like, um, if your vision is moving from left to right, and you, you have a keyboard that's moving from the left of your vision to the right of your vision because your head's moving back and forth, left and right.
Okay. Okay. So the keyboard's moving, right? So each, but if that was a video, you divided the video into frames, where a frame is like, is like, um, is like maybe 60 frames per second.
Right. And the idea is that you are, that in each frame, the keyboard, let's say that each frame, the keyboard appears in a different spot from the left of your vision to the right of your vision. Right?
And, and, and, and, so, what I'm proposing is that as the keyboard moves through your brain, is depicted by many different areas of your brain, what happens is, um, you see, you see, it's because the locations of the patterns are actually invariant.
And that, and that, um, the process of a pattern moving through your brain serves to allow you to track that pattern over time.
But basically creating, um, uh, a repetitive, uh, a repetitive playback system of the incoming data, a repetitive, uh, converged, uh, playback.
And, but, and converged, uh, what I mean is like, so, what your brain has to take in, has to take in, uh, as pieces, and then it has to assemble those pieces.
Your eye, your eye has to break down, has to receive patterns as pieces, and then, then your brain has to put together how they work.
And, um, and a part of your brain figuring how to put together lots of different, different pieces of light is sort of explained in the, um, action and perception, uh, book.
It's explained in the idea of, you know, in order to, um, in, in order to perceive something, some sort of movement is, requires some sort of, like, attention.
Consideration, consideration of something.
In, in order to, not, not just perceive, but to, like, complexify your perception of something.
Okay, let me suppose it.
