b0166y ctpr
(audio transcription needs fixing)
Neuron Pattern dopamine Brain
00:00
The read. The reason hurts patterns are the canvas of concepts is because that's what it's being transmitted. That's what's being received. If that's the only thing, your brain is seeing. And the only thing your brain is sending.
00:19
And that's it. That's the canvas, the end of the day, your brains are only saying this hurts patterns? These are, but it's not, it's not simply perhaps, simply hurts. It's coincidence patterns. All right, so when a neuron, so when another fire is frame, there's there's part of the memory process involves your here.
01:00
And you have some amount of I gotta figure out how those dope has a palette to have their own receipts open. But yeah, that's how I got to figure that part out because at some point dopamine will is secreted which caught with trigger neurons the fire but in the it's also necessary in the presence of neurons for memory function.
01:29
This is found down reason so. So, like we're talking about neurotransmitters and we're talking about, you know, a lot of the receptors have GABA, acetylcholine different kinds of receptors. So, maybe the dopamine applies to doper dopamine monogenic neurons and that and other neurons are like because so maybe dopamine is not essential to memory but near our transmitters are.
02:03
And so, maybe they have identified one case, which dopamine as an essential part of the process of receptors, right? Because because dopamine is going to feed neural receptors, right? Got like the outside of our surface. On the pretty. Snapping back. That is a, I think, I think it's the case.
02:33
That that. So we have the cell base, there's ions that are in the cell body and then there's the, there are transmitters that are inside the multifaceted sax. Multifaceted bodies. Okay, so those newer transmitters are like dopamine, got up gamma and acids and estoco column. Those are the chemicals that are in between neurons.
03:09
That either sit in multiple vesicle bodies progressively inside vesicle stacks, right? So the vesicle sacks contain like dopamine or GABA or those. microvesicle sacks.
03:36
Are going to be sort of like they're going to sit the basically gonna fit inside and the exit terminal and until the neuron needs to fire. And then those chemicals are going to be pushed into the synaptic cleft, which is going to push them onward, to the synapses have other neurons.
04:11
And some of the therefore in what will happen is some of the synapses of other neurons will
04:25
Will be will be receiving the aesto colony or in GABA or and that's going to trigger that's going to trigger some downstream neurons to fire. Not all of them at some and out of out of their temporal oscillations. So they didn't use as a face like a phase variance.
04:54
Okay. And so, let's say that the action of a neuron firing is going. It is the receipt of a pattern that a neuron has recognized and begin say that the process that a neuron goes through of having have with that one, neuron goes through of having five based upon some lesser number of neurons and fired.
05:29
Because it received a certain pattern but that firing is the memory because information the firing in the changes that happened to the neuron as a result of that client. So that means the, the new proteins that assist which is going to change the electric dynamic weight, the density of the electrodiamond, weight of the sign to that.
05:58
Is that neuron, right? Because now there's additional protein to the structure, larger. The structure has more mass and thus, the structure has one density more. Electromagnetic. So more protein and creates more protein, a new protein, new protein synthesis is created and that neuron Becomes.
06:30
Gains a higher rank, right? And that, but specifically the patterns that that neuron has learned gain a higher rank. Okay, it has learned good patterns patterns that are in use and, and at the same time, you're going to see the the neurot. So so maybe because it's higher rank, that means that neuron is agree more likely to fire.
07:00
And so if it's in an appearmental neuron, you might see the, you might see some changes in the number of connections to the summer or the number of connections to the present lower. Dendritic branches, that change the firing rate that increase the binary of the non are increased. Like it's writing us to find because and, and so that would mean that that.
07:37
So that effectively means that, that pattern is expected to reoccur sooner. And the pattern is represented by a higher level neuron that the pattern expectation is represented by a higher by any number of higher level neurons that would be fired. That would be triggered to fire with certain specific lower level.
08:12
If if we triggered part in certain specific lower levels fire, So it's like yet, so which neurons am I going to fire from? It's going to be the ones that are connected to specific lower level fire. So, the lower level firing is we're indicating that a pattern has been received and and in take us a step further, I am saying that, you know, basically you you have incoming patterns come in and they come in and you have like the first layer is going to pass on the entire pattern and and the subsequent layers are going to continue their.
09:00
They're like, yeah, I'm gonna acceptable pattern and pass it on like a whole pattern travels through. Like received patterns just sort of like travel through one node after another. Like they just wonder on repeats that pattern to the next one. The next round repeats that pattern to the next one.
09:21
The next few piece events, the next one and patterns travel across the entire brain. We just get replicated in cascading sequences. That's what I think. So, the brain, see, lots of different layers of the brain that are each sort of rerepresenting that pattern but also, but but not not exactly.
09:44
Like it's like each layer is going to represent that pattern at a different temporal stage. So that's like if your vision is moving from left to right and you your keyboard is moving from left to your reason to the right of your vision because your head's moving back and forth left and right, Okay?
10:10
So the keyboard's moving, right? So each that was a video. You divide the video into frames where a frame is like a, he's like maybe 60 frames per second Then idea. Is that you are?
10:27
That in each frame, the keyboard. Let's say that each frame. The keyboard appears in a different spot from the left version to the radio version, right? And So, what I'm supposing is that, as the keyboard moves through your brain, is depicted by many different areas of your brain. What happens is, you see, we see it's because the locations of the patterns are actually invariant and that the process of a pattern, moving through your brain, serves to allow you to track that pattern over time.
11:11
But basically, creating
11:21
Repetitive playback system of the incoming data repetitive, converged playback. And but in converged what I mean is like so what your brain has to take in, has to take in as pieces and then it has to assemble. Those pieces Your eyebreak. Your eye has to break down, has to receive patterns, and then your brain has to go to how they work.
11:56
And part of your brain, figure how to put together. Lots of different different. Different pieces of light is sort of explained in the action and perception. Fuck. It's explained in the idea of, you know, in order to and we're to perceive something, some sort of movement is requires, some sort of, like, attention consideration of something.
12:35
If in order to not just perceive but to like complexify your perception. Something. Okay, I'm supposed
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio