b0165y ctpr
(audio needs fixing)
Neurons Sequence Box
00:00
So, the idea is that patterns conversed together because
00:09
Because okay, so it's like okay, so imagine that you have
00:25
So imagine that you have a repeating pattern back, so it's not that it's repeating pattern, it's set the same pattern is happening, a lot. And a lot of different areas of the brain are taking turns rendering their part of that pattern when it's their turn to remove that pattern.
00:45
So as you've removed, your head left and right and anything. You see, like I'm seeing a box. And if I remember my headlights, right? The box is move, is in my visual field. That's moving to the left in the right, because my because relative to my, to my arm, to my head, In my, in my field of vision, the left side, the boxes are on the right side and then let the boxes are on the left side and as moving my head back and forth, smooth from the left side to the right side.
01:14
So left side to the right side and I'm leaving my head at the same time, right. So you picturing that I just I overstated, I wanted to picture the same thing and so the idea is that as moves from left to right? With each frame of that video stream, that that each frame is going to be basically rendered by a different part of the brain.
01:42
And the idea is that one part of the brain fires to represent that one moment. And the next part of the brain fires, represent the next moment. And in this is measured out, you know, neuron when they're on fires, it's that some millisecond event, all right? So you're gonna have to have us a large sequence of neurons to represent, you know, the pattern of a box on your left side, right?
02:08
The large. There's there's a lot of different pattern associations with that box but but interestingly it's like the box itself is made up of smaller patterns and the boxes in a larger pattern which is the box is in a room. The smaller patterns could be like, well other in a markings in the box was which is boxing.
02:34
Good condition. Is there anything wrong with the box? Is there anything stuck to the box? Other any stickers on the box? Is there any writing on the box? There's a box have multiple colors. What colors box, what material is box? Like all the different properties are associations with box.
02:58
And if you're going to think about one of those properties, then what would probably happen is, it's like, okay, so if you're going to think about the box at all, that's going to increase the chances that you're going to think about one of the boxes properties, which is like, it's in, and it's location in the room and orientation to you in location relative to you.
03:20
These are all sort of like things you might think of, just because they their properties that are associated with the fox. But there there's their properties that are linked to the box because they because they fired at the same time at the box fired. And there was a neuron at a higher level up, that was triggered to fire because you had the neurons lower down that were noticing what you what he had one group of neurons.
03:58
Neurons was putting together, the image of a box and one entrepreneur on just putting together, the sound of a box and one group of neurons just proved together. You know, that there's a sticker on the box and one's going together. There's a line on the box. And so what happens is, you have had some some at some higher level.
04:16
You have you have that so say you have these micro patterns of fire off and they fire off and because there's a higher, there's a higher complaint happening like so was happening, is is, is that any of itself is like a sequence of micro patterns and then you're gonna have whatever neurons are
04:46
Able to be triggered by that, by that, you know, lower level sequence of micro patterns. Right? Any narrows that are going to be triggered by that are going to store the representation of that memory. As the connections between different cells apart at the same time.
05:14
But it's what but it's stored as it's like as as the hearts signal that is going to be as a playback as the playback signal in terms of first in terms of like when it's going to fire and what is the strength of the neurons? You know, like how what is the readiness of the neuron?
05:44
And what is? And then, what is reason.
06:12
So the point of what I was saying was that the imaginational go back to the brain is because a 3D grid, you get different sequences. Each of neurons. Firing up each sequence represents the frame in the movie here, right? But this is not a movie. It is something that is like note taking like like a memory representation or something, but the, but it's as a 3d neural network, it's just very like it represents the kinds of patterns that it encounters very well.
06:55
Like that's because there's really like a represents those patterns in many times and it represents different parts of those patterns, many times and it represents those patterns like sort of like through independent neural firing sequences. But what happens is is that you have oscillators of lost neurons, there are listening to these independent firing sequences, it's like there.
07:28
So, they're recording.
07:32
I'm in a sense recording my own thoughts, but deciphering my own thoughts and then playing that the recording wild court been and then recording again and in some sense. Like, okay, so if I learn a sequence for hand movement, okay, right. Then hand movement is accomplishes sort of like by playing back to learn sequence that that it grades to handle.
08:14
So it's like playing back in these measurements. So every time I want to accomplish a goal, I'm sort of like playing back a previously learned skill set and many different skill. Sets, are linked together to accomplish. What happens during the course of the day. It's many different tasks.
08:35
But what my mind is doing is paying back sequence. A sequence of of, it could be words. It could be very visual, a very visual sequence where you're seeing images, many some people and not all people see images in their mind, do they picture what they want to do, what they want to achieve the user imagination to to visualize and predict their life?
09:07
Some people, you know, it's the story. You know, some people are touchy feely, they want to you know hold on to other people.
09:23
They're very, very kinesthetic in terms of in terms of the language they use and their behavior. You know, you can you can sometimes guess when someone is is kinesthetic or maybe more kinesthetic than another person in terms of what, what in modalities they're brain, is is preferring during the time that you're observing them.
09:48
And, you know, it is it is, it would be perfectly normal. If so, someone's brain sort of shifted to using different modalities at a different a different time. But I think that there's like, if you talking to someone with the modalities that they're using, right?
10:27
Then maybe that's one way to sort of connect with them and synchronize with them through dialogue, by using the kinds of modalities that they use or maybe that will help you sort of to establish successful communication with creative communication, with that person. Maybe that's part of it. So I mean there's definitely modalities.
10:57
Can I guess if you're if you're you know if you're talking to a visual person so maybe that sort of like that ties into the ties into like temples. Like so before I was saying okay we need temporarily synchrony but that's not it, that's not the only thing. There's also like, you know, pattern sacred, all right?
11:27
So you could, so it's so tempo spatial patterns as well. You know, like volumetric movies, things from certain angles, things for certain angles over time, you can have like great basically like four dimensional patterns. So 3d patterns 2D patterns TV pattern and three patterns, and 40 patterns, you know, patterns that change over time.
12:00
But it's still a time. It's still a pattern in time like that. Like it's like, um, like predicting sequences when people say, okay, the first number is three second numbers. Four, the third numbers five, what's the fourth number? And so you predict the fourth number would be six. I guess there, no sweet thing.
12:21
But the idea is that, you know, they okay. So the first numbers two, the second number is four a third. Number six. What's the fourth number? And I hope you're gonna pick eight. That makes the most sense, right? And then you say, okay what is
12:43
For numbers, three. Second number is by the third. Number is 8. The fourth number is 13. What's the fifth number? And so then you got to go from like okay, so we want from three to five so that's two. That's what was a plus two for five to eight that with plus three.
13:09
We're up from eight to. So first as well. So plus four of eight plus four would be 12 and then 89th plus why did I say 13?
13:33
Today. The okay, so that's it. Plus two plus plus two from foot from and that's the confused it, okay? All right, so I confused myself, maybe I should have had a notepad right consciousness, okay. Not living up to, to be so. Yeah. So we're interesting. Yes. So like before I did that, that, you know, consciousness is a sample.
14:07
Spatial notepad. For for the organism to remember, sequences of complex tasks in order to accomplish even more complex tasks. And, you know, at some point, there needs to be a sort of way to facilitate lots of different sequences for really complex for accomplishing, really complex tasks. And so in order to facilitate sort of like a strategy that involves long complex sequences, I mean, essentially this is I think that's really like the defining feature.
14:57
Human intelligence is the
15:05
I mean, maybe to define teacher of feature of the, of the organisms intelligence is that organisms, with their of, their brains, are learning lots of patterns, okay? And they're learning to then combine and organize and sort these learning patterns. So that if they can,
15:41
So that they, they want to organize these patterns at a high level so that they can produce the best results. Right. Because that's what, what is going to motivate? The organism the most is the best results or in a bit, the motivation is sort of driven by natural selection.
16:15
So the best, the best results. So, the one that our results are effectively
16:27
Maintaining survival and
16:36
Progressing with natural selection. So that leaves us to a situation of where, you know, what, what happens when the organisms actions organisms actions are no longer an alignment with with the goals of natural selection. And I think that sort of takes us back to
17:07
The global warming problem that we're having,
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio