b0161y ctpr
(audio transcription needs fixing)

Patterns Scale Brain
00:00
The block world is like all the tentacles mats so imagine Minecraft but you know it's like Minecraft as a world that's built out of cubes right there. It's like, it's like one instance cube yields. This massive world of cubes. And and so it's sort of like a boxel engine in spirit, right?
00:26
Where you have just one shape that's just repeated infinitely and that's the basic building block that everything is built out of but, but you know, you could say that, you know, maybe like you could make an argument like that for consciousness. Like if like it's made out of little blocks like our representation of what we see, not the action, not the actual reality, but our representation of reality is like made out of little blocks but they're actually phase tempored temple, spatial interface patterns, right?
01:09
You can say the same thing about the representations for feeling as being also made out of phase patterns that are in inside an XYZ grid like little blocks, right? So feelings, how certain special and temporal pattern described to them. Same thing with audio audio patterns. Same thing with smell smell has temple.
01:37
Spatial and phase characteristics. What frequency? Each part of the space-time grid is his active and and so the brain is able to track and build a model of the, some of the frequencies and sort of like trace. The in almost like trace to path, like by representing by representing different, like through movement, different parts of the model of the universe.
02:16
The model of consciousness is is modeled and the brain is able to attach a four dimensional robust, learning four dimension of fourth dimension, another dimension of learning that enriches. The that learning, because there's another vector to to help increase the traction of increase learning traction. So that the effort to learn has more support.
02:59
It's a better frame. It's a better design for a learning vehicle, right? I'm learning vehicle that's more performant. That learns better versus the vehicle. That is lower dimension and doesn't learn as well. And so, what I'm what I'm talking about. With the dendrite to MVR. I bought this is and hired him as learning that works faster and better with less data because it's a higher dimensional vehicle in the first place, consciousness is a memory system or a note-taking system.
03:48
Or a special kind of hard drive. Let's say that the co-occurrence of of patterns and similar spatial areas and in similar temple areas is going to have and effect on the shape of the magnetic fields that are produced and where the scent where the dipole or quadruples emerge and the same things true with the electric dipols and quadruples.
04:33
So the so, so brain activity or neural activity is going to create across the whole brand from a global from the map from the might the most macroscopic perspective of the brain. The microscopic activity is going to create magnetic moments and it's going to create electromagnetic moments, magnetic moments, and electric moments of dipole activity.
05:10
That, that sort of because what's happening is if you have a pattern that's moving to the brain and then a lot of representations will say you're saying the same object from many different points of view. There's a lot of different representations of one particular thing. Well, that is going to by virtue of the fact that on a microscale, but the brain as a whole should be able to detect that macroscopic, pattern of of magnetism basically electromagnetism, and/or.
05:51
Magnetism both kinds. So you're going to have a different is in so because electric dipolds are different from magnetic dipoles. You're actually a brain is going to detect two types of patterns. Okay? So the so so there's two different things that you can listen to and that respect on they your brain as a whole on a macro scale that is that part of the brain that is basically
06:25
It's there for a large scale patterns. And and so and the reason is because you have you're gonna have, you know? So you're gonna have parts of the brain that they're basically neurotend rights and neurons are and refocus on the smallest scale product patterns that and then that's the microscope pattern patterns and they so they help to establish the details.
06:50
Say, you notice and in every sense mentality and then you're gonna have like a mesa scale like the cortical columns, communicate, total calms sometimes through talents. And so you're gonna have meso scale. The quote about got to see the chronicles itself. So, the Denver area is learning everything that happens to it, but the quote of colon is learning firing sequences the quote-unquote as a whole is collectively, learning firing sequences from individual finding arts because it's affecting the whole oscillation but then the brain is a hole is able to learn global patterns.
07:39
That involve multiple cortical columns firing either in close, either closely together and in temporarily or closely together spatially and then create a high level associations between large groups of kind of patterns of large groups of mesascale patterns, and extremely large groups of detail patterns. And so we end up with this like rich, I sort of like three three tier reality where there's like a sense of rooms and then there's like a sense of our position inside rooms and then there's a sense of what's around us when we're in that position inside rooms, right?
08:24
In the detail level and it's able to connect those three things together, which is like essential for like remote membrane. If you're moving around, you need to know, like, on a high level which room you ran click the grid level and what your position is in that room or in that space.
08:40
So, that is the place level or, and meet a level. And then the most detailed level is going to be the the what what what it was? What is the other content in the detail content of what you're seeing in front of you? From that place from that. And it's the, it's the combination of all three that I think defines for me, the the those three things are all always seem to be present for me.
09:15
And, and what I would describe as my experiences of consciousness, I'm always had a place, seems like, or with, there's always space like, tempo spatial space. It always seems to be happening on a grand scale and then there's where I am relative to space relative to the space when I'm in.
09:36
So I'll hear I'm in this. I mean, this part of the grid that's of space and relative to this, part of the grid, I'm facing this direction. And then the content is like okay what's all the stuff around me like myself on my my computer, my desk, like everything else around me is the it's it's the essential, maybe, maybe this is the essential components being an organism and being able to navigate to space.
10:14
Is a sort of have this like map of associations between places and orient, the orientation of the self and then the positions and orientations of of what's around the self and that seems to be like a an important building block for an animal to have. Like, if you didn't have one of those three, it would, it might be harder to survive, right?
10:46
I mean, it might be hard to just survive through. It might be hard to move. Okay, that's that's what I say. It's it's but if you have to move in order to survive, then you're going to and you're, you're going to, you're gonna see if people you're gonna see evolution happen.
11:07
Basically, let's just say that evolution or adaption happens.
11:17
To the survivors of major environmental changes, right? It's not. It's not, it's not like, yeah, you say, well it wasn't happened over millions of years. But I could also happen potentially you know in a year whereas you have the southern change because the environment change and what was required to describe in the new environment required, something that required a mutation that some people had I but not everyone had people.
11:50
So yeah, the ideas people could change overnight the the way that let's say that the Maltese scale fractalization of brain activity and look like in terms of like how small patterns become repeated on the larger scales or different scales. I believe that helps to create that those fractal patterns the same patterns that appear different scales are helping to create multi-scale temple, spatial, cohesion, so that
12:47
Basically, the whole brain can basically a larger part of the brain and listen to a smaller pattern being played and that the data can be shared between the small pattern and the larger pattern. So you have multi scale, cohesion or basically taking a small analogy, making it into a large analogy, and taking the large analogy, making through a small analogy to relate data, that comes in at different scales to other data that comes in a different scale.
13:22
So it'd be like being able to take the analogy of and and community tiny insect community. Like answer be community and relate that to human beings. Like just imagine a human beings how to be high. And imagine we had a queen and imagine that we had, that society was a lot more like right, going out and finding food and bringing it back home.
13:52
It's like hunters and gatherers, maybe that's the gatherers, I guess. Because if we were like ants mostly gatherers, right? And then, um, but yeah, like if we sent people out and they didn't come back, that would be a sign not to send ants in that direction. But if we send out a scout and the scout comes back with food.
14:18
That would be a sign. Send more amps to get more food. And so then the answer that comes back with food. He might might be covered with food or or, you know, maybe maybe not covered with food. And maybe that would give us some sort of, maybe there'd be some sort of clue, that would give the rest of his hands.
14:40
Some sort of sign so that it's like again it's like this is antimony with a small pattern and then the collective of the larger collective is sort of like replicating a larger pattern. So there's a church is a transfer of knowledge from from one scale to another. And this is about, it was about analogies taking data and finding a top topological ISO morphism.
15:21
That can be repeated a different scales so that we can basically have information the same information pattern represented in multiple domains and then the two patterns can be contrast to one another. So when one change in one pattern happens, the the the change can can be also shared with other parts of the brain and other parts of the brain.
15:48
Because they have this because because the models that we incorporate exist in multiple scales, we can basically update our knowledge when we gain new when we, when we get new patterns. But regardless of whether or not this pattern contains data because I'm not sure, I'm not sure if this pattern, the pattern itself, it would make sense if the patent, if the pattern is binding areas, there's bound, or the pattern is bound by areas that have data that's relevant because it's through templates, facial patterns like that.
16:31
It seems that that higher levels are helping to order the lower level patterns because if you shuffle the words in the pattern it's what it's saying is this disrupted all but the lower its level of you know, the zero order a patterns. So, if I go lowest levels, there's no sense of the first.
16:51
It's like the first level of the noun network. Oh, 39 network. There's no sense of the organization of high level patterns.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio