b0167y ctpr
(audio transcription needs fixing)
Universe Atoms Oscillation
00:00
I realized that I needed to think of my. So there was some during the law of attraction. They talked about like, okay imagine that there's the content of the mind which is everything. You can see here if you feel taste. See every thought? Every distinction, all of your thoughts, all of your positive or negative thoughts, there's all that content and then there's everything that it's in or the space between everything.
00:31
Like, if you can visualize putting two fingers together, those fingers are not actually touching. That's like it's more like I fingers actually kind of like a cloud, the mostly empty space, the cloud itself has enough density to push away to push away other clouds. So you can put two fingers to up together and you can push what you can use one finger to push another finger, and the density of one cloud is pushing the other one, but if you, she zoom in at a very micro like, like, if you, if this is what I've heard, I haven't done this myself but it the, I legitly, if you zoom in with the microscope, you can't ever find the point when one finger actually touches the other one.
01:18
Because because the fingers, the fingers are ultimately made out of atoms and atoms are mostly empty space. The one, the one thing that that an atom does that helps provide structure is it's sort of creates its own density, and it's moving very fast. It's oscillating. Very fast is in a sense.
01:53
A kind of it isn't. It's like intrinsic oscillation and one sense like a, like the frequency of the universe. Like it's an electromagnet. It's an atom is like an oscillation inside, an electromagnetic field. And that oscillation is creating the density. And the density is the space time which is not separate from the content of space-time is just creating is pretty the density that allows one cloud of atoms to repel and push on another cloud of atoms without actually touching because they're densifying the space around them.
02:42
The the the atom itself, I think represents, sort of like it's like a whirlpool in a notion. So the atom itself is like a cyclone or vortex inside the the contacts of four dimensional space time. So, it's warping space and time together. And but it it like but say the idea it's like it is an instance of space time warping on itself, right?
03:22
As if all of space time is one is non-dual or one thing, right? It's an instance of space-time warping on itself. So it's like and this this let's say that you have to say that space time with the city without these vertices. There's no space time. There's now, if the, if all the atoms, stop spinning, they're then the space would collapse into nothing because it is their spin, which gives space.
04:06
It's dimension. It's the speed of their spin, right? The speed the frequency. This is feet is like frequency of the oscillation, but it's but it's it's that's inverted to their amplitude, right? So if they go faster, they're smaller to go slower and it's then it's, that's bigger. It's a bigger effect in that sense, in that sense the the that's a mechanism for.
04:45
That's a very crude mechanism for how the cosmos could sort of.
04:58
Have the ability to like, learn in a sense, learn patterns, patterns, could be learned or developed, Because stuff, because because of random events.
05:24
They eventually. Discover certain patterns. Think it's like how the game of life. How like, you know certain patterns just sort of like a merge from basic physics and you could call it learning, you call it memory but it is like this process of periods of that feel.
06:03
Of a pattern starting to of oscillations that are having a cascading effect on what another that are that like, patterns are merging from from chaos face because of the turbulence of chaos resulting in accidental patterns, that that begins to develop themselves on functionally opposite to the second law of thermodynamics.
06:39
It were in one sense that they be considered entropy always increasing. You have local areas of entropy.
06:54
And decreasing or extrapy increasing or order increasing. So if entropy is chaos and extra p is order increasing or the complexity of of a local system increasing because it's consuming a nearby system and exporting greater greater entropy to the surrounding and environment in an open system. And this goes on, I think.
07:21
Because and maybe as a certain, there's certain inevitability to this kind of pattern emerging in a truly chaotic system, where if you have complete chaos, the true random chaos because there's no there's no it's like this sort of like as if the original universe was a perfect.
07:51
Non-dual system. That would be like a yin yang system where there's 50% of darkness and 50% light and it's intermixed because like they read, like the original state is like, and there's like, so that distinction is like, what? Why not? It's like the universe has randomness because there's because that is the state of what the universe would be.
08:18
Yeah, if there was no sort of like
08:29
Waste, I guess if there was if there was no instruction to have the universe was then it has to have a default state so like it's like saying yes so but here's the thing is is
08:48
Like if the initial instruction was not a one and then, and you say, okay, well then this is your, but if it's not a zero or a one, like great didn't have to say the universe, it's not zero or one. Well, if there's no one there to decide, okay?
09:03
Well it's it's not going to be one or the other. If there's no, like if there's no, it's there's no decision that's been made as to what kind of university it is. Then they has to be sort of unbiased towards what kind of universe it could be. And that's why that's why it's like the initial state is like just anything that is possible, is sort of possible in the initial state.
09:43
But then which you have is you just have this like you have an, you have this. Alternative alternate state and which possibilities are collapsing. Because the inevitability of some of some patterns randomly emerging are is, is is something at the universe goes towards being one. That has patterns so it's like okay so it's like imagine there's a polarity in time so there's the beginning of time and it ended time and it's a magnet.
10:22
So, one of the two, the beginning or the end has border and the other one has chaos. So, it's like, there's a trend where right now, the story is that entropy is always increasing. So the universe is moving towards increasing entropy and that is the flow of time. But if you were to do, if you were to reverse time you say, okay, would know the universe is moving towards increasing order in reverse time,
11:01
So the developing complexity of the universe and perhaps okay so here's the other thing, so maybe there's like a mathematical requirement so like let's say that entropy always had entropy overall in the Ford in the Ford era direction of time has to increase. But let's say it's not possible for entropy to increase.
11:24
Unless totally let's say it's not possible for entropy to increase. Totally unless at some point little life forms emerge to the you know little vortexes emerge that stir it up, right? They have to move the universe from one possible stateless color positive to another possible state, which is negative and this conversion and process causes the flow of time, basically full of time because it's not actually because there's no actual flow of time.
12:04
It's just that the universe is just that what we experience as time is, in a sense, the universe traveling between its two states, one of positive. And one of magnets, it's like the universe is always traveling between two states one in which serves complete entropy and one of those the extrapy, but it's also possible that the universe is always traveling between two states from both directions at the same time.
12:37
So that would mean that there's if there's always a state of maximum,
12:48
Extra piece and at the beginning and a state of maximum entropy. So it's like a, it's like, but in a different location. So like, imagine the universe it needs time zone is splitting the total number of the positives and negatives, right? But maybe it's more, but maybe a satin, I don't know, maybe maybe it's that.
13:10
It's more, maybe it's more evenly distributed, one end. And more unevenly distributed on the other end, or maybe it's like a cyclical process of I'll always like, in this constant conversion process. So, I've increasing and entropy and one place and increasing an extra pee in another place, and a sort of like neverending loop of movements, which is just the sort of nature of improbability, sort of like the nature of being probability and probability.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio