b0173y ctpr
Eyes Neurons Photons Ganglion

00:04
Speaking of the eyes, there was a study where scientists wanted to know, if light was actually because idea is that light, doesn't enter your brain from the eyes. It that it's it bounces off the ganglion neurons. And it doesn't even make it to the cone receptors, which is weird because we've been told, we've been told that like basically the sort of cones are behind the ganglion neurons.

00:39
And there's like intern neurons between the ganglion neurons and the light comes. But light doesn't actually reach the light comes. So you have like blue light receptors and you have I mean the blue light, I mean so some of the wavelengths might get through. But most of it is gonna I get absorbed, I the membrane of the eye.

01:08
Now here's the thing is so photons. Enter the eyeball, right? And then the retina is where you have this sandwich of neurons. In the first layers, the game via neurons. Then you have intern neurons which just means that they're they're not facing that they're just in between the sensory neurons.

01:30
The game being runs in this case and the cones, the light comes, but it seems like what's happening is that the light cones must be interpreting data electrons. They must be interpreting electrons from the ganglion neurons, right? So the idea is that the photons enter your, your eye except and then, they're gonna, they're essentially trapped inside the eye socket for a little while and they're bouncing around.

02:10
But they're able to to your brain is able to record secrets sequences of events in terms of spatial patterns. So for that, I mean, I'm not not exactly sure. If if the way mainly in neurons operate is how similar that is to parameter cells which I've studied more deeply but it is interesting.

02:37
It is. I'd be interested to know if it if it's the dense, right? Of the ganglion neurons. That's actually sort of like facing because what I heard is that the photons are balancing off of proteins that like imagine a photon is like a ping pong ball and it's bouncing off proteins that are connected to neurons that are causing the proteins to flip around.

03:15
And then that movement is creating An electrical like an electrical activity signal which would be then translated into a chemical signal and past along the optic nerve. But I kind of have to I guess I have to recap this whole thing. But but interesting is notice that there was, I wanted to say, I want to look up, I want to reference, I want to recover the article where scientists went and they and they said, well actually light does exist in the brain.

03:59
It is emitted in the brain, so maybe the photons, maybe photons aren't getting into the brain. And so there was a recent study in the last two years where they sort of like relocated this. Whole at this whole thing to see if light was actually getting into the brain, if the brain was doing anything with light, I think it required a second luck because some of like, some of our assumptions about how things are are off by a little bit.

04:33
You know, sometimes the explanations, they just leave out some crucial piece of information and then that sort of, like changes the meaning that changes the meaning of it, right? So the idea is that, you know, with the split brain patients, you've severed the left and right hemispheres. But over time there's patients.

04:56
Well, they're extreme symptoms Well subside. And that's because the bridges also connected to your hemispheres. So you've sever the corpus callosum and you're just creating a temporary networking issue for the brain that has to reroute around in order to reconcile the short term problems that have been caused. And so we see the emergence of what appears to be two different personalities, the left and right hemisphere.

05:35
But over time eventually, one of the hemispheres will become dominant again.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio