b0172y ctpr
(audio transcription needs edits)
Brain note taking Dipoles Movements
00:00
Graph. Spectral fast. Spectrum graph, spectral theory. So grasp spectral series interesting because this was, this was a way. This was a discussion for analyzing MEG data, as a spectral analysis. Any v data and consideration of the brain as a graph. As an network graph applying like networking graphically to energy data to correlate the brain as a network.
00:46
And the data that is aspects of rap and he would measure with MEG, which is the magnetic and electric. But it's the electromagnetic field generated by it's the magnetic side, the dipole and egg dipole, real, nice, nice better. But you have you have a dipole. It's going to create electric this electric dipoles and there's magnetic dipoles.
01:32
I'll put his energy for some reason, is capturing the magnetic dipole, not the electric cycle, so that the electric dipole is what you get with easy. And that's the started by the shape because it's electricity based the score and the tissue. Underneath the skull is going to distort the electricity based dipoles measured with EG but the magnetic dipoles measured with magneto.
02:14
And cephalography are not distorted that all by the skull, or the brain tissue around the brain, underneath the schools, and the mercy of that. The amazing features of that I guess are that you get a really nice high level non. I guess I don't know. Like would would have diffuse like if you can't capture the detail at the neuronal level with Magneto and self-loggery, With that being similar to applying like a diffusion like a diffuser filter over and image captured like putting and putting a diffuser on an image.
03:15
Is that is that is there a similarity there? But the point is that we're considering the magnet, the false spectrum of the magnetic holography readout as the as a graph based upon the brain being a network that creates keeps component of the magnetic spectrum and a different area. It's like imagine a so meant.
03:57
So graph is like what you have imagine. You have a graph that you, you begin to, you. Imagine you're drawing a dress, it's a 3D graph and you're gonna need a coordinate system. So, you go with the typical x y and z coordinate system. And so why is why plot helps you plot?
04:18
The points that go on the? Why axis usually up or down and X can be left or right? Coordinates everything on the left. The left is like negative ax, or having the right is positive x of an imaginary line. In this case, we'll put XY through XYZ through the center of the brain.
04:46
And we're going to say that like if we think of the brains, everything is being at the brain as a spatial structure. As a volume, if it's on top of this XYZ graph, which is at the center. And then we think about we, then we also plot the data received from MEG on top of this same structure.
05:18
So yeah, so okay. So as far as I know so far spectacular, after represents the magnet and accessible ground as plotted by the activity of the brain, over the volume of the brains, over the distribution of the brains volume. So that means that like if you have brain activity, that is, it's not that brain activity, it's increasing, it's that it's changing.
05:56
Well, the rate might be right, that's what it is. So you have a rate of activity In certain regional areas and those were correlated with your movements and as well as changing there and with thoughts. And but what comes out of that is just this awesome phrase, which is grab spectral graph theory, Frank.
06:39
So, what I'm posting is that with, is that essentially what this rent, what does rendering is that? We're calling experience. We call it experience, but if you slow it down way, way down. If you could slow time down. Okay? Really, really explode, time down. So all you see, so we have one moment that's just frozen in time and nothing really changes the song time down.
07:16
So much that all you're considering is one moment frozen in time. Okay, this working. And so what you want to think about? Now, you have a frozen moment in time. Is that whatever you're seeing? It's like a drawing and it's like a drawing. It's like a map. All right, let's say that.
07:45
Let's say that. So right now, I'll tell you what I'm saying. So I'm at, I'm at the mall. I'm recording this. I'm at the Embarcadero Mall in San Francisco. It's been mostly empty for the past year because of the pandemic, but I'm sitting on a metal bench on the second level.
08:02
The three level mall. The mall is for the most part an outdoor mall, it's an out. It's I mean it's it's a small that's exposed to the element. It's not. There's no central air conditioning because they use the natural air of San Francisco. It doesn't get super hot in San Francisco.
08:25
I doesn't really doesn't that often, it does not, except it's not often go above 80 degrees and I think 70 degrees is, is pretty warm here for us. And what we're used to. Okay, spot. Let me put this back to my backpack. Okay. But okay, so we're gonna say that we've got this.
09:05
We've got what we're considering one moment of time. Okay. And what's in front of me. So I'm sitting on a bench. Okay. And there's a bus. There's a plant, a large plant. That is the plant is the size of okay? Size of a cow. Okay, it's a big bush.
09:28
Now, if I wanted to, I could I could get up and I could walk into it, right?
09:39
Or I could walk next to it, in my path would be clear. But in one moment of time in one frame of time that organism that is me knows that it could walk forward and it would have a clear path in front or it could walk to the to the right and it would be in a book if it walked into the book.
10:08
And So that information would be valuable for for for an organism that needs to walk to find food, for example, The information of which where my path is clear. And so I am. I'm saying this because because we can see that, you know, plant cell plant doesn't have a brain and idea is that animals have brains for highly coordinated movements to go far beyond just like, you know, a plant.
10:47
Has some movement, they might lean towards the sun, very slowly, for example. So it gets the best sunlight but it's not, it's not writing, it's not writing. A check from a checkbook and and pulling your check out Annie to me, there's not a high if that's not. That's the difference between highly coordinated movement and in simple movements plants have extremely simple movements for human being.
11:16
We have DVDs really complex, highly coordinated. Movements animals also do highly coordinated movements. You know, a dog had a dog is an animal. It has to consider a lot of variables every day in order to find fine food, or to be friends with the human who can give it food, right?
11:36
So a doctor making very highly coordinated movements. All animals are. And that's, that's like the, the, the bigger, the brain, the more capable is, that isn't all that is, like, if you had bit more, I mean, obviously, there's some brains that, that have been bigger than human brains animal brands.
12:05
Well, well, you know part of the animal came down but I'm saying you know, the elephants and dolphins and and a whole bunch of animals is very large. Grants not that many to be honest. Not that many. But there's there's a few and, you know, and we've seen we've seen some intelligent things from from animals that have very small brands, comparatively crows very small brains doing great.
12:37
Interesting things with the tools that they made themselves to get things complex tools. So in that kind of context, the brains are for highly coordinated movements. Whether you're human, whether you're human, or you're part of a, one of the other species in the animal kingdom. The the thing is that it would make sense in the context of having a brain that's for movement for highly coordinated movements for you to have a sort of note taking ability.
13:22
That would tell you. Once you figured out where something is where it's still is sort of it's called a memory system. A note taking memory system more, every frame of your consciousness is a note and collectively. The frames of your conscious constituting memory system that is for an organism that has to do complex things to maintain.
13:51
Its life. And, and long enough to either reproduce or to support other members of its species when they reproduce.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio
