b0181y ctpr
(audio note transcription needs fixing)
Brain Computer Interface Ai

00:00
Right. So, one of the major points for the group that I've for the both that I wanted to end on was that was about neurolinks mission to unite the brain with artificial intelligence. It's it's that it is that in terms of you know reading and writing to the human brain connecting when it comes to a brain computer.

00:24
And if you're so brain, your interface is the bridge between the between the brain and the computer. And in the computer is where the AI would program will run. And so we're talking about okay? The rest of the bridge between once we have once we have figured out the bridge during the brain of the computer, how does the human brain actually interact with AI?

00:50
And so where I'm going with that, is that from my microscope from front from a microscopic respective free zoom out for a second. Look, the whole point of a brain computer interface is when some level a user interface, right? It's it's in some level. It's it's a way for human beings are trying to figure out a new pathway to use a tool the tools computer to accomplish with what they want, whatever, they want to accomplish whatever they want.

01:32
So it's like, how do we use a tool in your way. So every time I improve these or interface of other tools like our computer, like so we had computers and but we didn't have graphical user interface at first we had just and just a command line, right? And you could run a program, then we had that graphic version interfaces and then we had that's important.

01:55
We had virtual reality, we had three graphical user and so, yeah, there's many other technologies that come along with it is. It's it's well when we how how we can interact with AI and intuitive way, in a way that that makes sense to our graves. And I think the answer is to interact with to adhere to at least, you know, in the bridge to interact with interacting with AI, it might be about taking what's familiar and enhancing that.

02:31
So taking the virtual reality, the volume of duality or everything, we're doing two dimensions and and making that part of the user interface with AI. So that would be like, you know, you go to when you want it. If you want to ask a question, you know, you pop up Siri and you ask me, say, hey, Siri can you get this thing or hey, Google, can you get this thing?

02:56
That's that, that is one way you can, you can summon AI for a conversation and so I'm talking about. Yeah. There's you know, building a user interface that makes sense to your brain for how you interact the. So it's more of a maybe perhaps a sort of like a 3D social experience or interactive experience or game like experience, some sort of analogy that gets your mind used to interfacing with AI and consciously.

03:27
So you're so you're. So your awareness is engaged in sort of creating a map of of that, the, the many different ways that you'll be able to communicate with and also benefit from from yeah. So there's two areas. This sort of, you know, I think ultimately. It's, it's you can be like, a conversation that you have with words or with just think about words or maybe even a conversation about pictures, or maybe you think about pictures and you summon pictures, but you have the computer, save, certain kinds of pictures, and your expression preferences, and you build this sort of visual graph.

04:19
And you can combine that with language and sounds. And it's like, you're, it's like your thoughts. Speak again, a sort of think you can use your thoughts and navigate, how you want to develop this multi-sensory graph that you are interfacing with and then and then along the way, you know, you can, you should be able to use your natural language processing to to run certain kinds of computer programs.

04:45
And and you know, there's lots of different app programs. You can look for different connections between the concept that you're so many different kinds of visualizations. You could ask it to write a story about about the things that you're summoning. So these are just beginning to play with like well how do I as a developer say as I say I have a developer and we have these technologies and exists and I have the ability to connect AI directly to your brain.

05:17
But how will you inter it? How to use that? How will people use that in practice? What is, what it's going to be the way that you make things like that. And so from a design standpoint, it's like, okay, what does what is the first of all? What is the, you know, how, what are all the properties of the application?

05:39
You, these are interface, right? And what can it do? And how can we make it intuitive or, you know, make a program. So people learn how to use it. How can we make it useful? So that there's people really feel like they are benefiting from using just so you can't technology.

06:03
And and so the thing is like with Mac with Mexico act like I was looking at what where his company is hiring for in the recent video. And it does seem like, you know, if he's moving towards, you know, I think maybe maybe he got really excited about while he was working.

06:21
Really, maybe he got really excited about what he saw happening with with was opportunities. And his new company is thinking, okay well we're going to you know, it's actually a more straightforward path to neuralink to just genetically engineer. The human mind to be receptive to optogenetic cylinders that sensors and transmitters, right.

06:47
We've opted in the next video, find brain control over the length between the brain and the computer. So we'll just do it in a localized modification. So he's a kind people for maybe crisp kit thing and in guess what? That's what it's come to is like, yeah. We're gonna actually make reaction at like, build a little brain, or for you out of your tissue.

07:12
That makes it possible to connect you to a computer. So instead of like specific connecting the computer to you ignoring or restick wires in you, we're going to actually modify your genes and we're going to make a better device and device is not going to ever get old is just going to be like yeah, you just, you know, at some point like we'll modify your gene.

07:33
So you have a great port that's made out of your own tissue, but it responds to light and that's going to be your your branch of your nervous. And so we plug the computer chip right there and the interfaces with the nerf system, right? And but you know, that's just one way of doing it.

07:54
So I mean I think that, you know, there's some skepticism from that, you know, it's like there's the it's what I think it's really is. There's just the field of art is your next is to your exciting that I just think that's where he has to be going. But and and now the other hand, there's there's the whole mission from really depth in the open water or something.

08:19
Spectroscopy and ultrasound and holography That is the alternative sort of pathway that I think we're going to get to and noninvasive range computer interface but doing something like option, human being it's like actually Kennedy DNA. That is far finished. It's not too far finished because if they're not if the knowledge, you know, we have the ability to ability to, you know, hey I was used to to basically predict most of the approaching folds a few minutes.

08:59
So we have situation where here and being there. What we're saying? It's like it's like looking into a point where I think it does it a modification, like a genetic modification. Can be done. Safely can be done permanently and it could be have far better results than and then inserting a piece of metal into your body.

09:34
And think that science has advanced to the point where this this is physical. And it's going to be gonna be safe, it's gonna be effective. It's gonna be the right solution for a month, for modern era for some people or something, right? It is not, it's not it won't be the case that everyone will go and get genetic and modify.

09:59
So, you know, something for optimists, at least. At least it may not be in the beginning, I don't know. It could be very crazy popular in the future. Maybe. Maybe you have the masses will be doing it but time, but what I think that I really do believe, there'll be an automation path with light imaging.

10:19
Because, you know, contrary to a max product is didn't neuron does expand when when it fires. And so, therefore it should be viewable with light at great distances to infrared light. As long as you can reverse their fractions, as long as the holography of works, the holography here for lightening the brain works.

10:44
As long as you can reverse that refraction then then, yeah, you can, you can get really amazing images that you can identify neurons finding real time. So it's not like the it's not like the opportunity's path is going to be the only path to stimulating and reading frame but it isn't it's going to be.

11:11
I think exciting in terms of repeating era in terms of like what we can learn with opportunities through opportunity. Extermination in terms of like what scientists can learn, especially in the medical side of treating patients who have, you know, extreme medical conditions or for extreme conditions? I need, they need to

11:42
Kitchen, no matter what Christmas? So Yeah, so I think there's hope, I think there's a place for it but it is very interesting that that day. That's really what he's doing.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio