=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0180y Microtubules Neurons Pattern
First recorded: 2021-09-29T23:16:52.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/ae99e99f-2d93-4788-b9e2-8a44e78603ff
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So, I don't see how a, like, the whole, you know, information is a coincidence pattern would hold whether the quantum physics angle, whether the microtubules are emitting quantum signals or not, or storing them or not, or memory or not.
But, um, I'm not sure how, like, so what I'm saying is, like, the basis of a bit, like, those, anything that's stored in a microtubule, if it comes out as, um, as a single fluxation to an ionic charge somehow changes when an, uh, when an action potential fire somehow changes its timing.
of when it fires. Well, the brain, you know, is still going to, the basis of a bit of information in that sense is still going to be a coincidence pattern, even if there's information coming from the microtubules and information being stored in the microtubules at the quantum level.
Whether there is, whether that is or isn't happening, the, the basis of a bit of information in the brain is still going to be a coincidence pattern.
So, um, I'm leaning towards, like, I don't exactly know how, uh, because of the scale of quantum effects, I don't know how, uh, a pattern could be stored in, uh, the quantum effects of microtubule and then retrieved from that microtubule
in such a way that it would cause, um, um, um, a neural circuit to fire that reactivates that pattern at sort of the quantum level.
Like, a neural circuit, neurons are much bigger than quantum particles.
So, so, so, so the idea is that a pattern comes out that's, you know, electrons, I guess, um, but a specific pattern and then your brain has to upscale that pattern to translate it from the tiny, you know, quantum electrons to the actual, um, you know, gigantic neurons.
And, um, and, uh, you know, if there is a mechanism, uh, for that to happen, then I haven't, uh, I haven't, uh, figured out what that is yet.
And maybe, uh, someone knows of a paper that's explored that topic, but, uh, but either way, we have the basis of a bit of information.
And it's, uh, the idea is kind of like Hebeon learning, you know, and, uh, with Hebeon learning, uh, Hebeon learning, yeah.
Uh, the situation was, uh, when neurons fire together, they wire together.
When they fire apart, they wire apart.
It's really, it's really that neurons learn sequences of firing.
So if they fire together within, uh, a, uh, a similar span of time or close together physically, spatially, um, or if it's, if they're far apart, uh, spatially, but they fire at the same time,
then, um, then, um, then the knowledge of that, of that pattern in which, that spatial pattern and temporal pattern in which they fired is stored by each of the neurons that participates in that.
It's, it's, I'm arguing that it's stored by the entire oscillation, actually.
So that any neurons in that oscillation that, that, that experienced that, um, phase of firing are encoding a memory of what fired in that area, encoding a, encoding a virtual, an invariant representation of that pattern across the entire grid.
So, uh, so a cortical column is a single grid, a matrix, that, that learns as a, as a network node, a network of networks.
The cortical column itself is like a mini orchestra, and the neurons are its instruments.
But, the patterns that it learns, uh, it's like all of the neurons, it's like a large number of neurons in the neurons.
They're learning the same exact patterns, well, not the same exact patterns, like different versions of the same pattern, because the pattern itself that they learn, sort of shapes that neuron, or it does, it does sort of, it does physically, it's physical, um, properties change.
And that's, and that's, and it's, and it's, and the change in physical properties is, is, is a, uh, uh, uh, as an, uh, as an, as an idea is essential for, uh, long-term memory to be possible.
So, um, so, um, and with that is, uh, new proteins are synthesized, and, uh, and you need, for new protein synthesis to happen, you need that, the cell had used to have a space for an operation to happen,
and it needs a structure, so you have these microtubules that provide structure for memory formation to happen, but if those microtubules are damaged, uh, obviously there's no structure for new protein synthesis, so your long-term memory, uh, potentiation doesn't work.
And so, like, but that also creates this association between microtubules and memory.
Now, the relationship between microtubules and memory is like, yeah, well, if your microtubules are broken, new protein synthesis can't happen, right?
But, so, it's a coincidental association.
Unless your, unless your memory is a quantum, which is where, where I think the orc orp paper came from,
um, the idea that, you know, when microtubules are damaged, your memory, you can't form memories,
well, if that's because your memories are quantum memories, and they're going in the microtubule, being stored in the microtubule, being retrieved in the microtubule,
um, that might, uh, be one way to connect, uh, microtubules to memory, but I think more likely,
it's that we need functioning microtubules for new proteins synthesis to happen, which is the real change in the physical structure of a neuron that,
that, that basically alters, it alters its, its structure in a way that tunes it towards the type of information it expects to be,
um, decoding in the future.
What sort of patterns it, it expects to be handling.
And, uh, with, uh, with, with the idea that, you know, um, different patterns have a different valence,
and that valence helps your brain to sort which section of the brain to send that pattern to,
and because your brain is able to sort of where to send each pattern that comes in from its valence or from its,
the, from the, the, from its, its, its signature
phasic properties, its temporal-spatial, uh, properties, and its physical properties,
and that physics properties, um, its, its, uh, its distinctions.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
