b0180y ctpr
(audio transcription needs fixing)

Microtubules Neurons Pattern

00:00
So I don't see how a like, the whole, you know, information is of coincidence, pattern would hold whether with quantum physics angle with a microtubules or meaning. Yeah, quantum signals are not or storing them or not. Remembering or not, I'm not sure how thank you. So what I'm saying is like the basis of a bit like those anything that's stored in a microtubule.

00:34
It comes out as as a single fluctuation to an ionic charge is not changes when and when and action potential fire sometimes changes, it's timing of when a fires. Well, the brain, you know, it's still going to the basis of a bit of information and that sounds, it's still going to be a coincidence pattern.

01:01
Even if there's information coming from the microtubules and information being stored in microtubules, at the quantum level, whether there is whether that is or isn't happening. The basis of a bit of information in the brand is still going to be a coincidence pattern. So I'm leaning towards. Like, I don't exactly know how because of the scale of quantum effects.

01:25
I don't know how a pattern could be stored in the quantum effects of microtubule and then retrieved from that microtubule. And such a way that it would cause and neural circuit to fire that reactivates that patina sort of the quantum level, like a neurosurgeon neurons are much bigger than quantum particles so that is the pattern comes out.

01:57
That's, you know, electrons I guess, but as specific pattern and then you bring has to upscale that pattern to translate it from the tiny, you know, quantum electrons to the actual. Yeah, gigantic neurons.

02:26
And, you know, if there's a mechanism for that to happen, then I haven't I haven't figured out what that is yet, and maybe someone knows of a paper. That's it's for the topic. But yeah, but either way we have the base of a bit of information and it's the idea is kind of like heavy and learning, you know, and with heaving my hebian learning.

03:05
Yeah, this is your emails that when they're on fire together they wire together when they fire apart they wire apart. It's really it's really that neurons learned sequences of firing. So if they fire together within a similar, expand of time or close together physically, especially or if it's, if they're far apart the spatially, but they fire at the same time, then then the knowledge of that of that pattern which that's facial pattern and temporal pattern.

03:46
I wish they fired is stored by each of the neurons that participates in that it's it's a marketing at a store by the entire oscillation. Actually, so that any neurons in that oscillation that that with that experience, that physic firing are encoding, a memory of what fired in that area and cutting it and coding a virtual, an invariant representation of that pattern across the entire grid.

04:25
So a quotable column is a single grid, my matrix, that that learns as a as a network node and network of networks is a quotable call. Myself is like a mini orchestra and the neurons are its instruments but the patterns that it learns. It's like all of the neurons, think of large number of neurons, in the neurosurgery, learning the same exact patterns, well, not the same exact patterns like different versions of the same pattern because the pattern itself that they learn sort of shapes and they're on, or does it does serve it does physically, it's physical properties change and that's in the change.

05:23
It's physical properties is as a atom, as I as an idea, is essential for long-term membrane to be possible. So and with that is our new proteins are synthesized and and you need for an important sentences to happen. You need that facility to have a space forward, operation happen, and use a structure as we have these microtubules that provide structure for a memory formation to happen.

05:55
But if this microtubular damage, obviously, there's an structure for new protein synthesis. So your long-term memory potentiation doesn't work and so they that also creates a association between realists and memory. Now the relationship between microtubules and memories like yeah. Well, if you're microtubules are broken, he apparently says this can't happen, right?

06:25
But so if the coincidental association unless you're and actually remembers your quantum, which is what where I think the work or paper came from the idea that you know, microtubules are damaged your memory, you can't form memories. Well, if that's because you memories are quantum memories and they're going in, the microtubule being stored in the microtubules and like tutorial.

06:49
That might be one way to connect my contributors to memory, but I think more likely it's that we need functioning microtubules for new proteins. This is to happen which is the real change in the physical structure. We're going on that that basically alters the authors. It's it's structure. And a way that turns it towards the type of information, it expects to be decoding in the future.

07:21
We sort of patterns. It's it expects to handling. And with with the idea that, you know, different patterns, have a different valance and that valence helps your brain to sort which section of the brain to send that pattern to. And because your brain is able to start where to send each pattern and it comes in from its values, or from its from its signature physic properties, its temple, spatial properties and its physical properties.

08:01
And then physics properties.

08:06
It's it's that's distinctions.
