b0183y ctpr
(audio notes auto transcription needs editing)

Brain Patterns Object

00:00
The question was, who am I? The question is like the action to perception cycle indicates that your perception broadened is because you grow your perception. Like you, as we move around environment, you are you become curious about things and when you become curious about what you attend to you grow your awareness around that.

00:21
So you become more aware of an objective. You pick it up and manipulate it touch it, shake it, connect it to other objects, like your awareness of the properties of of each thing you encounter. Whether it's an object on table phone that is going to, in fact you it's gonna it's going to expand your awareness around that object.

00:46
So, what you attend to is, part of what is

01:12
So yeah, the point is that, you know, actually myself, but I want to create a picture

01:23
Have to disturb me and the two of me are facing each other, which one has an arm held out upward. So that one is above once below and and it says I create myself because action perception cycle indicates that the development of itself and the cortex depends upon the exploration of the concept of the, perhaps there's the meditation on itself.

01:52
So as you meditate on the south, you actually develop myself. If you don't mind, if you don't, if you never meditate, you'll never get out of yourself right now. Okay? So many haven't done yet. If you got to develop and develop yourself the here as a sub, the question, who am I?

02:14
But you don't have a good answer. You haven't even you haven't developed yourself yet, that's what ended the case. And so to to develop yourself, you just have to think about yourself. You dashed up for your who you are and you have to think about the things you would like the how you are the creator of you.

02:35
You've always been a great of you, you've created yourself, but now you're conscious creator of you where for me, the unconditioned interview to being the conscious career view. How would you like to be? How would you like to respond? That's different from programming. When you respond to consciously, this is how I respond.

02:54
I got angry and it's like unconscious. That's unconscious programming and so programming. But when you are creating yourself so well, with how the way I like responds, I'd like to respond smooth. You know, something happens that YouTube upset me now I respond better. Right? And better responses than ever.

03:16
I am taking in the learning of everything I've learned, and I'm developing better response. So, if, if all of these situations happen again, I'm gonna respond way better, you know, go back to all, think about all the situations you have that you will, you is beautiful. You had avoided, how you, you?

03:42
You see my thinking about yourself? You know, when I snap to the situations and all the changes events and led to outcomes that happen, you can see how

04:00
Yeah, other past you could take and say. So if you're reading this, I want to know that I'm real but I'm the only one that's real so I'm really you're not real. So if you're reading this, you need to know that you are not real and the way it works is.

04:21
I'm dreaming you, I'm dreaming you and I'm dreaming you into existence. So the fact that I even think about you causes you to exist.

04:35
And so I'm causing you to exist, but in a weird way like

04:53
She's almost causing me to exist. So for me to walk out of her life is literally to time

05:09
Because it don't exist outside of her mind exists. Basically help her. So purpose.

05:25
So I don't really exist, except as her imagination.

05:38
Okay. So the see this was Wow that was really strong running with that. I so had another idea that. Okay. So what I have to say is that that we have to look at the fact that basically contest experience is, this is when you have a, you have a pat of you, basically have some large-scale patterns that are echoing repeatedly accurate, echoing repeatedly in a sort of temple oscillation and so there, they're basically they're persistent patterns and these persistent patterns are represented by the whole brain.

06:44
And here's why it's like a whole brain pattern development, right? The whole the patterns your brain is developing are the whole brain is doing it as simultaneously. It's doing the whole brain is doing all the patterns, the whole brain is doing all the visual. The whole brain is doing all the all the area, like everything, the brain does get combined, and the reason it gets combined is because it gets sent all over the place.

07:16
It's because like, if you think of, if you walk into a park, right, you walk into a green park with grass and trees and open air and lots of space between buildings. There's not buildings, this is park. It's no, no buildings right. There could be buildings in some parts but I'm talking about the green area, the grass, and the pathways, and the bushes, right?

07:39
It's a little bit of nature. Maybe, maybe you have a forest near you, you're in the forest, okay? Or I'm actually at aquatic park in San Francisco. As I write this as a speak this to a microphone to be typed up later. And so what I'm saying is that you have your whole brain is contributing to all the all of the awareness of everything around you.

08:10
So if you're aware, first of all, of any light or darkness around you there's part of your brain. That's contributing to that whether it's light or dark. There's a part of your brain. That's contributing to whether you're to to, what do you know, what do you know about what you're standing on?

08:29
If you look down to see your feet on grass or your feet on pavement, are you feet on stone or concrete? Where it where are your feet? Are your feet dangling in the air? Because you're sitting at a bench or sitting on a swing. Are you feeding the water?

08:49
So This knowledge, this is a prophet. This is a property of your reality, at the moment where your feet are, that's a property of reality. It's like, you know, like everything in terms of programming like if reality is the object and programming or they entity then a property of that entity or object.

09:16
It's like, it's like anything that's true about it. That is true about part of it. It's not true about the whole of it but it's true about part of it. But it's true about that object as opposed to some other object, some of this true about reality, as opposed to, you know, register reality isn't all consuming object, right?

09:37
It concludes, it includes everything. But what's different, is your feeder on? Your feet are in one place on grass. If you have feet, I guess some people don't have feet. It's okay. And if you with the point, is that is that there's always like, what? What is around you, right?

10:01
That's a property of the scenario that you're in, okay? But your brain has to make it distinction. Just like, there's a part of your brain. It's like saying, okay, it's light or dark and that distinction has to be persistently activated, that's a pattern. Okay, it's a pattern. If you look at a tree trees a pattern, right?

10:21
Your brain has to learn patterns, you don't just, you're not just born, with the knowledge of patterns, your brain has to learn patterns, and you should look at the book action to perception. You have to think about something in order to learn a pattern. But if you're seeing the pattern persistently, then your brain has to be persistently producing that pattern.

10:40
And that's when I get this. When we get to these words like hallucination, like a Neil Seth is is, you know, he's used the word hallucination in terms of what the brain is, hallucinating consciousness. It's, I think that's, it's a similar sounding word to, to that the famous atheists.

11:03
Gentlemen, who says the brain is, is creating a kind of illusion of an illusion of consciousness, you know, where you have like, like, you know, and I think that, that sort of ties into like the Indian and Jones. There's the Indian Jones movie, right? And he's in and the kingdom of the crystal skull and he goes, and sees this alien and the alien, like he's see there's like this, this room that's spins around and certainly the alien that was a statue is now a four dimensional entity but it's just moving, really slowly.

11:42
It's really so slowly. In normal time, you have to like accelerate you have to accelerate human being with with this time machine that they had, right? It sped up the sort of sped at the the film. Like, if you just see one frame of a film, it's a photo, but if you speed up the time, right?

12:09
Since someone forward into the future then you can see that. There's actually something it's even more. Amazing, what's happening, right? You have, if you slote, if you saw one freeman time, I'd be frozen, right? If we could move faster in time, then the pace of chain is more startly.

12:34
Interestingly like, yeah. So one of the ideas for extended brain is that you could be temporarily spies everywhere. I swear to God, you go to the park and it's by show up. Five minutes later. Jesus Christ every time. So,

13:04
You've got to go to imposes, but when it essentially, what I need is an analogy between two different tables. I don't have to bridge them so it so IT is not going to fly if you don't have the ability to relate one set of data to another, they have to be some sort of data conversion.

13:27
Like, it's like synchrony temporal synchrony and if there's not then it so it's like, it just is a matter, like, you know, the whole idea is if you just have like the maximum number of nodes that are part, if the, if you have the basically arguing, like if you have like who you are, is the summary of all the connected nodes.

13:56
And if you connect the second brain and it has more connected nodes, then by virtue the fact that has a greater number of connected nodes, you're going to be your. You're going to be identity is going to be the summary of all those nodes. And so, I didn't need no longer to be localized with the original circuit, but with the larger circuit, and the larger circuit could trend over multiple lines.

14:22
But then, but when I'm marketing is that in order for that condition to be true, the information across it has the information across all the tables that have to be temporarily think of asked. So you'd have to have like basically here not just connections between two minds but also like they'd have to be

14:47
Temporarily synchronized which they would do. I mean, I guess they would find, I guess they would find that equilibrium that balance that that alternation. But what's interesting is that, you know, you have, I guess you you have to art, I guess you can take this argument and because they well what about the case we've been doing twins is right.

15:05
I wonder he's gonna go, he's gonna go next specifically, you know, when's like Tatiana and her sister. And a whole idea is that they've maintained two separate minds and so, according to this theory, is because that the, the connections between a two minds are below. The threshold needed to exceed the the components of each individual mind.

15:34
And so my argument is why they maintained separate combination is that they're the, the flow of attention, the flow of the macro nerve circuits. So, you know, the, the rich clubs and the default mode network, and the connections between the pyramidal neurons with the input long interns like those connections is, are where to where sort of responsible for coordinating me that global activity, each of the minds separately.

16:12
And like in that the what the the thalamus which is sort of like a router that that the just three book, cortex is just acting. So, in that context, the

16:33
It's not, it's it's it's it's in the specifically. Like I'm gonna say is like more the most abstract patterns I would expect to be extreme cerebral cortex, but and the most close to the original sense, sensory patterns like the most heartfelt patterns would be in the lowest areas of the brain stem or the lowest, or the lowest wrongs of the neural of the (neural cycle)?.

17:00
So like I mean, I think that like the brain stem itself my be I'm curious to see if it's basically like one large number. Let's get out and in it and analogy like in terms of like yeah, you like one super large neuron and that's your. It's your brain stem but then you've got like, you know, like like a tree like a trunk of tree trunk, right?

17:23
And then the rest of them are smaller and scale but they're fun, but functioning very much in a similar way to where you have maybe the initial echo and then you have like, with all these extra echoes and it's in the alternation between ecos and listening, and echoes listening to echos that you are compiling.

17:52
A generation of sense of internal sensory modality,

18:05
That. So yeah. So the question is like well, how do I build a four dimensional patent capture machine? Right? Because it's that's essentially what we're talking about, but it's not just like, for dimensional kind of capture. It's also playback and listen to itself capture and was interesting is like, okay so the suit just too couple different directions like okay.

18:31
Well, what if we took all the signals for the entire brain merchant together into a single and do a single, like, sort of, like waveform and pass? That way form everywhere. We'll see. That's sounds, it sounds like, okay, well then and then what would might happen in that instance?

18:49
Is that is it basically, each of the receiving parts of the brain, would only detect the patterns, that they have learned to detect, and only a fire and to, for the roles that they've learned to play and so, it's like, yeah, I've learned to play a role. And I've learned to play this role when I see this pattern and seeing this pattern actually is me playing this role observing is doing.

19:24
It's the two things are a couple together in a way. Observe like an observing is doing, even though it seems like it's a two-step process. It's the process of one thing which which causes the transformation into the other. And Yeah, this is crazy. It doesn't
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio