b0187y ctpr
(audio transcription needs fixing)
Brain Compunds Patterns in Oscillations
00:00
It's, it's
00:11
It's pretty obvious that the brain is is rendering the experience of consciousness with frequencies because that would cover it. That would be, that would be enough. And that's what we can see the brain doing with each potential is creating exactly that. And so, what we need is, okay? So, besides we take the patterns and turning them into other kinds of patterns and generating specifically frequencies besides that, what we need is a theory of how all the different
01:00
We need. It is a theory of how all the different. How the brain can turn all these different spray frequencies, how they bring can recognize them ingest them, and combine them cognitive patterns. So, we're saying that. Yeah. The brain is spring out, all of these frequencies that we're time, intervals, and the rest of the brain is watching, okay?
01:27
And so, we need is a pattern. We need just show different ways. Different mechanic mechanical possibilities for how these micro pattern frequencies could be combined. And the answer is there is an illustration of of this process happening with point nap. Plus plus, which basically is, this is equally to figure out which points in a 3D scene, belongs to your there was points belong to this object, and how do we classify this object?
02:12
So we want to do objects segmentation and classification, and you can also call that semantic 3d, semantic segmentation Analogy is sort of, you know, an explanation for how this can be done. But in addition to that, you can say that, well, knowledge can be inferred, not just from that method.
02:42
That's not the only method, but there's also tomography. There's also, you know, if you look at the four year, slice transform, that's another tomographic like pattern recognition, machine, where you can take or bits of a pattern and then combine them together, you know, pretty good example. You know that like how to relate one set of data to another two?
03:20
Uncensored. Little and common, besides basic, besides either, like a basic frequency pattern, or they might have a temple inspiration. It's not like, there's actually more physics. It's not like there's obviously some work business between associated with opinion and so the way that was created,
04:08
That pipe the pipe pipe location. And what it does is it, it's able to link basically between two different unstructured, assets of data, by having the the data basically time coded. Like if we have a time code for when your heartbeat and we have timecode for when you bring my spikes then we can make association between a wild heartbeat pattern and we're making and that's pretty convolutional networks to get at the 3D convolutional CNNs and they want to get at the data.
05:04
That's really hard to parse so they created imaginary dimension and imaginary vector. So they're using imaginary numbers and it makes students that making the memory robust so that you're less susceptible to dropout. I mean, the less acceptable to the problem that you drop ourselves, which is wishes, the problem is to drop outside.
05:28
So it's called overfeeding. So, this thing. So there's one thing about, you know, pointing at plus plus this because the data is the data being fed into the machine, it's possible that because it's more robust, because it's, it's 3d because there's like multiple angles that you could see with tomography.
05:51
If you have multiple angles, you can predict the, the concept which is the 3d object that is beyond the slices of the four-year slice protection. Theorem you can predict the 3d object from this license. You could predict which is analogous to predicting the concept from from just pieces of the concept, right?
06:15
Say oh there is a, there is a way that all these different &&&&&&& ideas fit together, that's the concept, right? The concept of the concept is that this concept represents a map of all these lower level pieces of information fit together. And to the concept of of, yeah, I'm not gonna It's about and think of how if you imagine the field of view of the VR headset, like there's been a lot of discussion over the years with the 90 field of view, 110 field of view.
06:56
What's the right trade-off for oculus binoculars? Try to do to put a larger field of view inside the oculus. So they've tried to put a larger field of quest to would that have affected with that of what that how much would that affect the price? Like if you think about, you know, the description of mathematics, they came along and hear this great description that he, the founder of we've had at this great description of what a life field was he sort of introduced the constant to a lot of people who hadn't really heard the content of life before, but like everything in your field of vision is that you're seeing is is the light shield.
07:37
It's the field of photons that are bouncing off of everything. Causing the that the light to change. It's frequency based upon the color of what is refracting off of. So that your eyes can collect that frequency and then interpret the world as a 3D model that you the character are walking around inside and crawling around inside or lying around inside.
08:15
And so, the
08:25
So the light field is at the point. So you see your brain doesn't capture doesn't bring in the life elder off. It doesn't have a direct import. It has to use your eyes to bring in the light field and the eyes can only like the only thing happened to your eyes is that the light failed hits the proteins in the gangly a neurons and it costs them to flip and that's that when when you have enough of the ganglion neurons flipping and you get to your situation where the eye has recognized something in a pattern is sent inward or maybe, I don't know how we're, I don't know if guys work like that or if they or if the game the neurons will just or maybe they're more like passive-gated and it just sends signals onward.
09:18
You know, I don't know, I have to find out more exactly, but the point is that you, your brain is just collecting like a lot of dots. It's tracking tracking dots. It's figuring out its position with multiple different multiple kinds of senses but one of the senses is just, you know, noticing visual clues in the environment, right?
09:42
Noticing some sort of environmental feature or some feature of the room or space that it's in. It helps the creature helps the brain of the organism to orient itself within that room and to figure out which room it's in. And it's bringing like it's memories store little representations of each room and specific sections and that's why when you see it when a mouse moves through a maze, the neuroscientist who's looking at mouse's brain will see different play cells and great cells.
10:22
Light up corresponding to the play cells. Corresponding to what place the the mouse is in relationship to the room that it's in. Like what it's orientation is like where close to which wall those with a place else? Are our indicating and that way if there's a memory that's like noticed if there's now if the other is like food received at one of the that can be seen if the food that can be seen from one of the positions and one of the play cells that's been activated.
10:51
Then that the location of that food is now is now able to withhibi learning to wire with the with the place of that. The that the masses are recognized as a place or not a place, but is a position inside a place. And then we have the grid cells, will help the mouse to remember which room it was out of all the different rooms, okay?
11:13
So has a way of categorizing spaces well by using the part that apology of the substrate of the brain to plot out spatial memories and temporal memories, but using actually actual space of the brain to plot out the knowledge of spaces in the memory of being in different spaces.
11:48
And so that memory is conditions to the functioning of the brain. In fact already with virtual reality, we have a, we have a new next generation brain, computer interface right. The brain is learning to drink potentially depending on how virtual is used. The brain is learning to communicate with with looking to communicate its intention since the computer and right now it's like the input is very simplified.
12:30
Like, you know, we've got controllers and buttons and
12:37
And they're really great the sixth off controllers. You recommend your whole hands and arms into the VR but soon you're entire body. I mean what I'm saying is like, if the other thing you've tried is to oculus quest too. Then you you wouldn't know why we're so excited about virtual reality, because we sleep because the people in the VR industry have seen, have gone to trade shows, and they've seen stuff that hasn't come out yet.
13:06
That is just, you know, for whatever reason, for it, mostly a lot of times for economics but also just for, you know, it's hard to, this is a difficult start to hard to coordinate a business in a world like this, right, for business to continue to launch products, and to succeed, into innovate, and to deliver new services and a timely way.
13:30
It is actually really hard to do. And because a compounded, it's actually okay. So, a compounded.
13:49
It compounded series of representations, a commanded series of of megahertz of hurts, and megahertz patterns over the detected by. All right, just tempo spatial pattern acquisition system. So the tempo spatial pattern acquisition system is projecting it. Turns out there's also projecting temple spatial patterns predictions for the rest of the network to detect.
14:32
And the pattern has sort of metastability. That's accomplished. By oscillations temper us to build new accomplishments oscillations and coordination with other translations. So what you should oscillations is making is being passed around, but the key for its one, oscillation update information, another oscillation is that they have to be seem to importally, which is so into neuropikes, and a way to synchronize data by by matching them, putting them on matching time scales.
15:21
So you could convert a peak that's in one data set to a peak another data set as long as both peaks happen at the same time. But then itself is kind of like the four years life is transforming that you can make a connection between one objects. And when once one slice of an object in another size of an object, and another size and object, because of where those slices intersect incoming sensory tomography, it's like with electric companies demography.
16:00
It's like, well, it has to the signal has to travel through each material, different rates and so that affects the amount of time it takes for the thing to be received on the following end. And so,
16:16
So you have you have one transmitter and a whole bunch of receivers and they all receive a signal at a different time and that creates a sort of image of density of the density that has to travel through because it's how much it's going to be slowed down before it gets to an essential certain sensor.
16:33
And then the next, the next sensor is going to transmit that's going to create another image of the density of what had to travel through. Those two is two, slices is two images. If you combine them, you can find that that there are certain intersections where there's more density and in certain intersections were just density.
16:52
And you keep, you keep adding more and more of these slices. And you can start to identify objects inside the materials and comply with deep learnings. And you know, it begins, you know, you basically do object detection. But now, imagine you can take slices not just from like left or right, but from above or below for many direction, you know, and in So, you see that if the brain can line up, what's going on with your eyes, and with your ears through, if you can line it that light up both temporarily, then if a lightning extracts, like lightning strikes happens within close.
17:44
Proximity of Thunderstrike directly and the brain can link them together because there's approximal connection. But then where emerges from that is a concept of, you know, wait a second, these the lender nothing, their lightning, they always come to your other. So they must be part of one single fundamental force and the development of the concept of what that is.
18:09
What that could be is setting the stage on is sort of like the actors. You know that's sort of like that. That's like question is sort of begged human is the human being is is sort of asked a puzzle. Well, what is lightning? Thunder. If they're connected and eventually we have electricity, right?
18:36
The brain compounds patterns, meaning, which essentially means that like the same patterns are learned everywhere. And because they're learned everywhere because there's a coordinated structure that needs to repeat the patterns on a large scale when the become part of the active when they become part of the active rendering.
19:08
So, we have to
19:16
So I'm looking into an art store. There's like a metal dog. It's looks like I was made of sheet metal and rivets. It's really ugly actually but it also impressive in a strange way. So yeah. Like I can see. Okay. This is gonna make part of a living room, but it's a ridiculous waste of space.
19:35
Where it's all just like ornamentation, I guess it's good. If you have a vast amount of space who is the vast amount of space in San Francisco though? I mean, I guess somebody does and then like so what I'm looking at this art and art store especially like striking and sort of like
20:03
I'm just like impressions of something that's real, but it's exaggerated a little bit. Like the Ross classic handed the roster for your eyes are sort of like caught and it's like in this real the slight it's like slightly surreal and like what the fuck? Like there's no purpose for that fucking thing.
20:28
And at all, it's a fucking paperway, but it's art. It's actually it's a paper weight but it's art and so you like you get to sort of like compass like you know what the fuck? We got something useless here just for the entertainment of your eyeballs. And Yeah, I mean that's it's it's, it's annoying and interesting at the same time, I think that if you have a lot of visitors, then you have something new and novel to show people that you didn't have and just kept asking everybody to stay the fuck away from me.
21:21
The whole point is that the art is like, because it's off by just an amount or something. Exaggeration. This is out of place. Just enough. Interesting. Just enough, the, your awareness of lingers on it, a little longer and something that was not our, it's more interesting or something. That's not our and so because it didn't sort of engages your thank you trigger, some sort of pattern in your pattern recognition and your brain that cascades around especially compounding multiple recognition point.
22:04
Multiple points of pattern, recognition are compounded together with that art experience. And so that is why.
22:23
So that is why it's like yeah. What if you have like a room that is like has a unique art experience, unique, lighting experience, and extend experience and unique, smell experience and unique. Vibrations from the floor and you have a room that's like a coffee room where there's like whole point of it is the best yourself of the memory of the previous room as much as possible.
22:52
It's like black. It's boring around light all these different like non just like boring colors, grays. And any different shades of gray. And the whole point is that you supposed to do best yourself. It's like the resonance of that art that you just experienced the other room. Then you went to one more room and once again, got right lights, but say, maybe like the first room was, like, sort of, like, maybe reddish purple.
23:20
Now we're like blue and green. It's just like the point, is that it's a different light, spectrum, different lights, show different, art style, different music. Completely different smell. Maybe the room. Temperature is different and you have like, you know, one of them like any books, something like the colors and the shapes and images.
23:44
They're evoking something colorful, something beautiful. And the whole point that is to, yeah.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio