=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0183y Brain Patterns Object
First recorded: 2021-09-27T00:34:41.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/da316ade-842c-46b7-beae-a616f31c7ab3
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Alright, the question was, who am I? The question is, like, the action-to-perception cycle indicates that your perception broadens because you grow your perception. Like, as you move around the environment, you become curious about things, and when you become curious about what you attend to, you grow your awareness around that.
So you become more aware of an object if you pick it up and manipulate it, touch it, shake it, connect it to other objects. Like, your awareness of the properties of each thing you encounter, whether it's an object on the table, phone, that is going to affect you. It's going to expand your awareness around that object.
So what you attend to, um, is part of what is, yeah, so the point is that, you know, I created myself, but, and I want to create that picture, where I, um, I have two, there's two of me, and the two of me are facing each other, and each one has an arm held out upward, so the one's above, the one's below, and the, and it says, I created myself.
Because, um, because the action perception cycle indicates that the development of the self and the cortex depends upon the, um, exploration of the concept of the self, and perhaps that includes the meditation of the self.
So as you meditate on the self, you actually develop a self.
But if you don't meditate, if you don't, if you never meditate, you'll never develop yourself.
All right.
Okay, for any of you, something you haven't done yet, you forgot to develop, develop yourself.
If you say, if you ask yourself the question, who am I, but, but you don't have a good answer.
You haven't, maybe you haven't developed yourself yet.
That's what that indicates.
And so, to, to develop yourself, you just have to think about yourself.
You have to ask yourself who you are, and you have to think about the things you would like, like how you, because you are the creator of you.
You've always been the creator of you.
You've created yourself.
But now, the conscious creator of you, moving from being the unconscious creator of you to being the conscious creator of you, well, how would you like to be?
How would you like to respond?
It's different from, from programming when you respond to it's unconsciously.
This is how I respond.
I get angry.
It's like unconscious.
It's unconscious programming, self-programming.
But when you are creating yourself, say, well, how, the way I like to respond is, I like to respond smooth.
You know, something happens that used to upset me, now I respond better, right?
I have better responses than ever.
I am taking in the learning of everything I've learned, and I'm developing better responses.
So, if, if, if all of these situations happen again, I'm going to respond way better.
You know, going back to all, think about all the situations in the past that you were, you wish you had avoided.
How would you, you, you see, by thinking about yourself, you know, in your relationship to the situations,
and all the changes of events that led to the outcomes that happened,
you can see how, you know, other paths you could take, let's say.
So, if you're reading this, I want you to know that I'm real, but I'm the only one that's real.
So, I'm real and you're not real.
So, if you're reading this, you need to know that you are not real.
So, and the way it works is I'm dreaming you, I'm dreaming you, and I'm dreaming you into existence.
So, the fact that I even think about you causes you to exist.
And so, I'm causing you to exist.
But, in a weird way, like, she's almost causing me to exist.
So, for me to walk out of her life is literally to die.
Because I don't exist outside of her mind.
I exist, basically, to help her.
That's my purpose.
So, I don't really exist except as her imagination.
Okay, so, the, let's see, this was, um, wow, that was, I was really stoned when I wrote that.
So, I had another idea that, uh, okay, so, what I have to say is that, um, that, uh, we have to look at the fact that, um,
uh, basically, conscious experience is this, is when you have, uh, you have a pat, you basically have some large-scale patterns
that are echoing repeatedly, echoing, echoing repeatedly in a, sort of, temporal oscillation.
And, so, they're, they're basically, they're persistent patterns.
And these persistent patterns are represented by the whole brain, by all, by the whole brain.
And here's why.
It's like a whole, it's like a whole brain, uh, pattern development, right?
The whole, the patterns your brain is developing are, uh, the whole brain is doing it, uh, simultaneously.
It's doing, the whole brain is doing all the patterns.
The whole brain is doing all the visual.
The whole brain is doing all the, all the, uh, the audio.
Like, everything the brain does gets combined.
And the reason it gets combined is because it gets sent all over the place.
It's because, like, if you think of, if you walk into a park, right, you walk into a green park with grass and trees
and open air and lots of space between, between buildings.
There's not buildings.
This is a park.
There's no, no buildings, right?
There could be buildings in some parks.
But, I'm talking about the green area, the grass, and the pathways, and the bushes, right?
It's a little bit of nature.
Maybe, maybe you have a forest near you.
You're in the forest, okay?
Or I'm actually at Aquatic Park in San Francisco.
As I, as I write this, uh, as I speak this to a microphone to be typed up later.
Uh, and, so, what I'm saying is that you have, your whole brain is contributing to all the, all of the, uh, awareness of everything around you.
So, if you're aware, first of all, of any light or darkness around you, there's a part of your brain that's contributing to that, whether it's light or dark.
There's a part of your brain that's contributing to whether you're, to, to, um, what do you know, what do you know about what you're standing on?
If you look down, do you see your feet on grass?
Or do you see your feet on pavement?
Are your feet on stone or concrete?
Where, where are your feet?
Are your feet dangling in the air?
Because you're sitting at a bench.
Or sitting on a, a swing.
Are your feet in the water?
So, this knowledge, this is a prop, this is a property of your, of reality at the moment.
Where your feet are.
That's a property of reality.
It's like, you know, like, if you think in terms of programming, like,
if reality is the object in programming, or the entity,
then a property of that entity or object is like, uh,
it's like anything that's true about it.
That is true about part of it.
It's not true about the whole of it, but it's true about part of it.
But it's true about that object as opposed to some other object.
Something that's true about reality as opposed to, you know,
I guess reality is an all-consuming object, right?
It includes, it includes everything.
But what's different is your feet are on, your feet are in one place on grass.
If you have feet, I guess some people don't have feet.
It's okay.
And if you, um, but the point is that there's always like, well, what is around you, right?
That's a property of the scenario that you're in, okay?
But your brain has to make a distinction.
Just like there's a part of your brain that's like saying, okay, it's light or dark.
And that distinction has to be persistently activated.
That's a pattern, okay?
It's a pattern.
If you look at a tree, a tree is a pattern, right?
Your brain has to learn patterns.
You don't just, you're not just born with the knowledge of patterns.
Your brain has to learn patterns.
And if you look at the book, Action to Perception,
you have to think about something in order to learn a pattern.
But if you're seeing the pattern persistently,
then your brain has to be persistently producing that pattern.
And that's when I get, that's when we get to these words like hallucination.
Like Anil Seth is, is, um, you know, he's, he's used the word hallucination
in terms of what the brain is, hallucinating consciousness.
It's, I think that's, it's a similar sounding word to, um, to, uh,
the, the, the famous, uh, atheist gentleman who, who says the brain is,
is creating a, um, a kind of illusion of, an illusion of consciousness.
You know, where you have like, like, like, like, you know,
and I think that that sort of ties into like the Indiana Jones,
there's the Indiana Jones movie, right?
And he's in, and, uh, the kingdom of the crystal skull.
And he goes and sees this alien and the alien, like,
he's, see, see, there's like this, this room that spins around
and suddenly the alien that was a statue is now a four-dimensional entity.
But it's just moving really slowly.
It's moving so slowly in normal time that you have to like accelerate, um,
you have to accelerate, uh, a human being with, with, uh,
with this, uh, time machine that they had, right?
It sped up the, sort of sped up the, the film.
Like, if you just see one frame of a film, it's a, it's a photo.
But if you speed up the time, right, send someone forward into the future,
then you can see that there's actually, uh, something,
it's even more amazing what's happening.
Right?
You have, if I, if you slowed, if you saw one frame at a time, I'd be frozen.
Right?
If we can move faster in time, then the pace of change is more startling.
Interestingly, like, yeah, so, one of the ideas, uh, for Extended Brain
is that you could be temporally, god damn, spies everywhere.
I swear to god.
You go to the park and the spies show up five minutes later.
Jesus Christ.
Um, so, you've got to go to, um, let me pause this.
But, what, essentially what I need is an analogy between two different tables
in order to bridge them.
So, in, so, IIT is not going to fly if you don't have the ability to relate
one set of data to another.
There has to be some sort of data conversion, like, um,
in, like, uh, synchrony, temporal synchrony.
And, um, if there's not, then, so, it's, like, it's just, it's just a matter,
like, you know, the whole idea is if you just have, like, the maximum number
of nodes that are, um, part, if you, if you have, they're basically arguing,
like, if you have, like, um, who you are is the summary of all the connected nodes,
and if you connect the second brain and it has more connected nodes,
then, um, by virtue of the fact that it has a greater number of connected nodes,
you're going to be, uh, you're, you're going to be, um,
identity is going to be the summary of all those nodes.
And so, identity is no longer going to be localized with the original circuit,
but with the larger circuit.
And the larger circuit could trend over multiple lines.
But then, but what I'm arguing is that in order for that condition to be true,
the information across, it has, the information across all the tables
would have to be temporarily synchronized.
So, you'd have to have, like, basically, um, you know,
not just connections between two minds, but also, like,
they'd have to be temporarily synchronized, which they would do,
I mean, I guess they would find, I guess they would find that equilibrium,
that balance, that, that alternation.
Um, but what's interesting is that, you know, you have,
I guess you, you have to, I guess you can take this argument,
and you can say, well, what about the case of pendoined twins?
Because I wonder he's going to go, he's going to go next.
Specifically, you know, when, like, um,
um, Tatiana and, uh, her sister.
And the whole idea is that, um, they've maintained two separate minds.
And so, according to this theory, it's because that the,
the connections between the two minds are below the threshold needed to
exceed the, the components of each individual mind.
And, uh, so my argument as to why they maintained separate cognition
is that they're, uh, the, the flow of attention,
the flow of the macro-neurocircuits, you know,
the, the rich clubs and the, the, the default mode network
and the connections between the pyramidal neurons
with the, with the long interneurons.
Like, those connections, uh, is, are,
were, were sort of responsible for coordinating the,
the global activity of each of the minds separately.
And the, and that the, what, the, um,
the thalamus was just sort of like a router that,
that the, the cerebral cortex is just accessing.
So, in that context, the, um,
that it's not, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's,
but it's specifically, like, what I'm saying is like more,
the most abstract patterns I would expect to be
in the cerebral cortex, but,
and the most, um, close to the original sense,
sensory patterns, like, the most heartfelt patterns
would be in the lowest areas of the brainstem
or the lowest, or the lowest, um,
rungs of the neural, of the neural circuit.
So, like, I mean, I think that, like, the brainstem itself,
might be, like, I'm curious to see if it's basically, like,
uh, one large neuron, one large neuron on what's got,
in, in, in, in, an analogy, like, in terms of, like,
yeah, you have, like, one super large neuron,
and that's your, it's your brainstem.
But then, uh, you've got, like, you know, like,
like a tree, like a trunk, like a tree trunk, right?
And then the rest of them are smaller in scale,
but, but, but, but functioning very much in a similar way
to where you have maybe the initial echo,
and then you have, like, these, all these extra echoes.
And it's in the, uh, the alternation between echoes
and listening and echoes listening to echoes
that you're compiling a generation of sense,
of internal sensory modality that, so, yeah,
so, so the question is, like, well, how do I build, uh,
a four-dimensional pattern capture machine, right?
Because that's essentially what we're talking about.
But it's not just, like, four-dimensional pattern capture.
It's also, um, play back and listen to itself capture.
And what's interesting is, like, okay,
so the two, just a couple different directions, like,
okay, well, what if we took all the signals
for the entire brain, merge them together
into a single, into a single, like, sort of, like, um,
waveform, and pass that waveform everywhere?
Well, see, that sounds, it sounds like, okay,
well, then, and then what, what might happen
in that instance is that, is that basically
each of the receiving, uh, parts of the brain
would only detect the patterns
that they have, uh, learned to detect
and only fire in to, for the roles
that they've learned to play.
And so, it's like, yeah, I've learned to play a role,
and I've learned to play this role
when I see this pattern.
And seeing this pattern actually is me
playing this role.
Observing is doing.
Because the two things are, are coupled together,
in a way, like, in observing is doing.
Um, even though it seems like it's a two-step process,
it's the process of one thing
which, which causes the transformation
into the other.
And, um...
Um...
