b0191y ctpr
(audio transcription needs fixing)
Oscillations Sequences Physics
00:02
And so, the oscillations that I am experiencing, I mean, the oscillations are giving me my sense of space, my sense of balance, my sense of spaces around me. They're like, when I look around any room in or any place indoors are outdoors. What I'm seeing is a large sense of space, a sense of large structures, a sense of a geometry to the world around me.
00:37
And this feeling that I have both extends, like, extends my senses self into that geometry is if I'm the sort of like, mystical presence here in this space, but I'm not like visit, I'm just floating energy, right? I'm a floating energy here, and but what I'm arguing is that, my oscillations is my brain.
01:04
Oscillations are creating that those large, the large structural senses space, the large geometric large sense of geometry. The sense of itself within a neonatry, a sense of the self is part of a geometry. As almost like a vibration, like a drumming vibration within another larger. Vibrating drumming vibration. And it is kind of interesting that reality might be procedurally generated at each creation like sort of dissipative system like because that's because if you break it down to physics like a human being is dissipative system, it's like a vortex at the root level.
01:53
Just it's more freak to a hurricane, or a galaxy or an atom, right. That just a human. That's an organism is a dissipative system. Everything has this and organized, a self-organizing structure is a dissipative system, but what's interesting is like, well, now, wait a second while what about machines, what are they?
02:18
Because they're not grown naturally, but they're their collisions resulting from dissipative systems, I guess, because in a sense that we were colliding together atoms, in order to make these machines. And so that's just like the the physics of that situation is is it's still the same but it's interesting to say, you know, at some point
02:57
You know, it's interesting to say what does information drive physics orders physics, driving information, and they are two sides of the same point. Information is.
03:10
How physics works. It works, according to the, you know, principles encoded in in it, it works a certain way, all right. And the results of how it works for this really amazing guys or or not depending on your perspective and he passes because it knows exactly which pieces together and which temporal order.
03:47
So there's a spatial order of firing and there's a temporal order of firing as there's a spatial tempo order of firing. Basically, like, four-dimensional firing in a four-dimensional matrix, right? And so, what's happening, is that the whole program, the whole like yeah, the whole program are the whole machine.
04:07
The whole brain is listening to the incoming patterns and learning the sequences of them learning this, they're firing sequences, so it's learning longer and longer sequences and what you can appreciate is that the people who have like incredibly long sequences,
04:26
You know are putting together huge amounts of information. So there's like but basically. Yeah. Like so then there's books right? So so there's people who like you know they write treats the people who write articles, people who write books and then there's people who like, you know, like I guess to they're creating content every day.
04:48
They're just like it's putting themselves out there. Okay. And,
Transcribed by Pixel