b0192y ctpr
(this is an audio transcription that needs fixing)
Oscillation is just for the canvas of consciousness
00:00
This is neuron and cluster. And number one, two known. Cluster number two, I'm looking to fly the following route, I'm just with my drone, just requesting approval to fly this route. Here it is. GPS coordinates shows a path from a starting point. A millimeter wide millimeter through a space and a certain time interval and where it's the flight is expected to take place.
00:25
I do not anticipate running into any other aircraft in this vicinity. Wherever see if you request for this flight plan at this time, this is the decentralized database of Jones flight plans. We can confirm that there are no other intersecting flight plans at this time that have been registered with the message, with the same GPS, coordinates as your as a do as existed in your flight plan.
01:05
And so then basically, I take every every major point of the GPS map, the most distal the most vessel and must up to the North. And, and all the interesting curves in between, Peaks and waves and so capture some sort of reduced representation of that and use that representation.
01:46
To and code of. It's like encoding a tune into agent into a generic piano. Like let's say you have a generic piano key. That can sound like anything. The generic piano key but it can sound like anything because it has such a huge range. It can also look like anything so it can sound like anything or it could look like anything and it does the visual the same way does audio.
02:12
Like it's basically like a series of temporary stage frequencies overlapping but it does it does audio which is like audios like. I mean it does it does a video but it does video like a sort of like 3D sounds. Like it's a higher dimensional sound energy still consisting of temporal spatial patterns, but the density of the complexity of those patterns is multiply and yeah.
02:49
So that's part of what I'm proposing is that this, this visual sounds that the brain makes there can also merge with like regular sound. So the visual sound merch is with the regular channel, so you're here audio and video together when you're experienced reality, right? And because they blend together because they're basically made from the same form and they're compatible in terms of being on different frequencies and but they can also interlace and to the same representation.
03:23
And so we have like lots of what I'm saying is like we have lots of micro representations that are themselves representations in terms of frequencies. But in these combined together with with mezzo representations at Metro frequencies but all of the micro and meso representations that are in the frequencies are basically being summoned like the micro and the macro are being someone.
03:49
At the same time it's like having a the level of detail machine, but you're having like, okay, we're gonna summon part of your brain, to be the mac representation, by the brain. To be measured representation, part of the brain, to be the mic where representation and we're gonna, where does someone all of them?
04:04
At the same time or this at a fast enough rate that they can all blend together and seemed like the happening at the same time, like basically, like imagine, if you, you could interlace the frames of sound with video, right? You could interlace them so that they don't appear at the same time and in the effect maybe as if they are overlayed instead of interlaced, you might not notice that they're interlace, if it's fast enough.
04:47
Yeah, so we're talking about etching. So we're talking about etching a visual sounds and multi-sensor a multi-sensory cloud of multiple levels of detail, okay? So we have low levels of detail and the smallest hurts and we have larger levels of detail or basic levels of detail and the larger parts.
05:23
But it's interesting that
05:29
I mean at some point in oscillation is just a is just for the canvas of consciousness.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio