b0212y ctpr
(audio)
Hierarchy Oscillations Mind Map
00:00
I was just thinking that another way to frame, it is just to say that there's hurts. Rendering the consciousness. It hurts rendering. It's some, it's not it's it's a it might it might help you at first to think of a volume electric video. But that's not what it is.
00:25
But that might help you to sort of like, think about how the computer, how with volumetric video, a computer has to account for feeling in a 3D space has to render a 3D space, but it has, but it also for the screen to the screen as a render one perspective of the 3D space.
00:49
Hey, and I'm just I'm just making argument that the rendering is assault tone away. It's hurts. It's a coincidence pattern. Expressed. It hurts as a soliton wave and electrum in. It's, it has, you know, there's an associate voltage or associated electromagnetism with it. And so, it's properties are produced by the brain and read by the brain grace, right by the brain.
01:36
And so consciousness is a is a hurts rendering reduced by the brain and read by the brain but it's but specifically the brain is oscillating in between rendering and observing between rendering and observing. That's what the oscillations are, they're oscillating, they're doing like timing to offset between rendering and observing.
02:02
But what they're observing not with oscillation is reading is the there's a differential between the neurons and in a column that fired and the and the ones that did not and the ones that are predicting, they're gonna fire and it went into their predicting. They're not. And that is part of how the sequence of the rendering is is determined to produce the, the program of reality.
02:41
Okay, so welcome back about Alex. So I had a really colorful idea. I thought, well, what if I create a really colorful template? And the mind map tool, right? Of basically, it's like so going to like so, you know how, like yeah, I've been missing around. Pretty my own templates.
03:09
And what I'm thinking is like making a really colorful one that's like several rose dance. So you start at the top and then you make a second layer and a third layer, okay? And then on the third layer, it's so densely packed because the first side there's like three.
03:24
And then there's three for every three and then there's three for every three again. So it's actually the port layer but there's like. So now you've got a lot of different nodes at the fourth, fourth level. And so what I'm suggesting is that we start there at a lower level of abstraction and the and the reason why is, is I don't necessarily is, I want to I want to sort of build the higher level of abstraction in, in reverse, which is interesting.
04:01
It's like yeah what if I start on something that's like lower level and then build in revealed upwards until you like figure out okay? Because yeah, it's an exercise right? Let's put this, let's create the SDR and then we'll create the higher level representation and I'll sort of like I think that yeah, that might fit if there's sort of hierarchical construction with my brain happening and you know, maybe I need to talk it out.
04:32
Okay. Right? So I'm engaging in a feedback. We've here what enhancing feedback? We get some rain wave and trainment. I want to get the colorful graphics. I want to put in front of me. I want to start creating like a really colorful hierarchy for, but here's the thing.
04:58
I think I want to combine. I think what I want to do is like create a screenshot and then add it to simple nuts. So I mean added to the notes notes, the notepad. So a screenshot of the mind map. Because I think that's what I need to do is to represent the associated concepts from in a branches aspect and then put it in a sequence, right?
05:34
So it's like using that's like that's using a mind map in an unconventional way because then it's like you're combining the branch. The branching is just designed to show a relationship between two different ideas. A relationship that is in some sense shares, some minimum of isomorphism in terms of a natural hierarchy, with some other concepts.
05:57
So if two concepts are both at the same level of a hierarchy, they can be both be children. But the point of making them is that they are distinct. They're also distinctions relative to one another like they're not, it's not the same thing twice. So the reason that there's multiple children, each one is taking a different sort of is doing at least, one thing that's different in terms of its properties.
06:23
And that's why it needs to be included in this categorization, because this is sort of like a mind. Map tool is about arranging categories in a hierarchy. And that's interesting because category theory doesn't have any hiring but like yeah. If you can sure, if you could have transformations in a hierarchy then you could have like system would be at the top of the hierarchy and then you could have, you can have components underneath system and then you have entities and then you have the menu, you have the document.
07:14
Okay and maybe I should do that. I should make a mind map where I have. Like the highest level is the system code that applies to the whole hierarchy and then the component code which means that you have some code that only applies to some of the project and what it applies to those are the things in this hierarchy that it applies to, but you can assign but you would assign what it applies to not at the component level, but at the entity level, and that's the point of entities, is sort of be like a general target for what the HTML page is supposed to render.
08:00
And with the components are supposed to write to
08:09
So yeah, it's like this is your, this is your hook into. Existence is the that's what the entity is. It's your that's you're hooking into the print, right? You can change the print.
08:29
And so the entity represents the vague abstraction of what you are printing.
08:38
Yeah, what is the summary? Great function. It's like a 3D metric that hurts.
09:01
And so, that's what we are needing to describe to create an access. And so that's sort of like yeah that's just like the high level summary and then when I have is like branches into all the areas that sort of describe the low level pieces that make up the bigger picture so so that means almost like yeah.
09:35
So the mind map is like, okay, so start with that summary to, these are all the low level pieces that connect to this bigger picture. And that's what the book is about, is a book is. Okay, so this is the hypothesis and then these are the pieces that add up to the hypothesis.
09:53
And so, I'm just going to list all of these pieces. One by one, and explain why the fit this hypothesis? And I'm going to go through the audio to listen to the different sort of arguments that people have brought up sort of argue and then I'll have answers for those.
10:13
Like I sort of like frequently asked questions and maybe move that to the index. Right. So yeah, so let's keep let's keep going. I think I want to dive back into the oscillations today so let's put on the headphones. Listen to oscillations will take notes. Thanks.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio