b0210y ctpr
(audio notes transcription needs fixing)
Brain Computer Technology

00:01
Correct. Internal cognition to remain the same. So that might be just behavior over likely or the brain space. I don't know what to call that, but don't be a certain difference in that computation ability or function. If I may add I just want to add full scenarios in my head.

00:21
For example, one we are talking about how newer diversity people would have access to neuralink, but at the same time we know the people who can afford it like people who are not necessarily needed, who just have a lot of money would be report that technology would also happen.

00:35
I don't think this is an itself is clearing any kind of inequity. It is definitely not necessarily a step towards equity, but that thing said I had no styles in the head out of curiosity. For example, let's say I am projected so this kind of feels that is a very humorous way of place it.

00:53
Like, if everyone here has worked the movie invention of life. So in that essence, imagine once we know how to now people would not just be projecting what their naturally thinking but they would also project what they imagining and it will give access to another kind of. How do I say atmosphere all together?

01:12
Currently we're dealing with whatever. We can't project in reality using our limited sensors but tomorrow it would be massive. So some would have access to the technology and some like always would not. So how would we deal with that? Kind of disparity is another question from social logical perspective.

01:36
Was my question not clear? Oh yeah, I think it's clear. You mean, I think that people had come before, it will be probably the lucky ones as I think the people can't afford to get over diagnosed with during childhood with Auckland of, you know, mental health disorders. Everything goes up their brain for like other lucky ones.


I don't know how I use who it is. And the other concern that I share from in government playlist, is that by using all these devices. And we are kind of our thought process and our logic. And how we solve problems is actually simplifying because we are synchronizing in the way, and our brains as we are right now in this room and we have actually Google have less flexibility and skills.

03:15
Because we also adapt to remember and starts now, coding and everything is just the same language, our you know, diversity around the world, about brain structures and skills that languages. The diversity of knowledge will just increase and decrease. So I'm not sure if it's actually in which or not, you know, Miguel and Nicole Lewis and Ronald and they think the opposites and I kind of share them around because really experiences have to be in the real world and make sure the world is bad.

03:58
I think you can get the same intense. I mean, it depends here, you can get the same experience and just individual world and vice versa. So, I don't know if it's actually a luxury or actually, you know, it's a little tasting or some form. So maybe it's they have a lucky ones.

04:31
Interesting, thank you. Would anyone else want to our standard? And I I know that there's a lot of different brain computer interface technologies in the works that are designed to democratize the technology and make it vastly cheaper than the with the cost of, you know, like an MRI medical image cost today and one of those projects is called open EIT open electrical impedance demography and for a few hundred dollars, they're trying to bring something that can within, when combined, with deep learning approximate, you know, medical imaging that could be as useful in some cases for some, some kinds of scans as MRI.

05:17
And so I I don't believe that's actually going to be an issue. I think that the difference between I think, you know, if there's if people need to purchase a medical imaging product, or brain, computer interface project products to interface with the computer, it will be possible just like buying a cell phone.

05:40
The technology will be democratized to to be affordable as affordable as a phone. I think that's my I mean within like maybe 20 years I think. And but I wanted to say that because you know the world, I think the real driving difference between those who are able to connect their brains to like imagine if you connect your brains to the computer and eat that it's it's similar to having like and entireness it's like being the boss of an entire nation where you can like you can you can ask the government to, you can create programs further for an entire government's worth of artificial people to to work on and and and so you have this like tremendous powers, like now you're the head of a nation state when you plug into neuralink and you say well what about those?

06:25
What about the disparity between meal? Those people who want to be all natural? They don't have as much. And again as much done, I think that it's just well that was their choice and that is their choice. And that's how I think it's, you know. That's yeah. But but I mean, but, you know, there might be like, you know, the ability to just talk to a computer instead of plugging in a brain computer interface and asks nations of AI to help you with tasks.

06:52
And if they if they that's another way to go about it. So I mean I don't know that you have to have a brain computer interface to take advantage of fast, computation or resources. Oh yeah. And I love that. I'm just simply saying, for example, the acquiring, these technology would also be a process of evolutionary.

07:12
Like only if

07:21
To your city because I think and close some would have access and some would not with any other product as well. So like university was how do you ensure social logical impact you photos? That is introduced. That's all I was created about.

07:42
So, I think they go.

07:51
Was especially.

07:56
Give it their abilities.

08:05
That arms, so that aspect.

08:17
Just,
08:39

Of course, like

08:44
For.

08:58
Before.

09:03
You know.

09:18
And essentially localized intended, you know, safe. It's like a little boss. We need to that specific, that will take a lot of time to to reserved to those needed the most. But again don't incurred. You know the question vis on bed. Yeah, that's my opinion.

09:58
Thanks for this advances. My question. Anyone who wants to take this rover to young other hand there? A lot there, some people who are so desperate to have this, I just want to mention the team, one of the talks about this great computer interface. I was in a room here clubhouse, and I was surprised to see John Draper, the computer scientist, you know, even had

10:40
You one of the patients couple.

10:48
Yeah, I think that separate

11:03
And yeah, it feels they help them but these men products and they're coming in the market, which could help limit the juices. Like, for example, like colonel is only using

11:21
With the gonna be.

11:34
And basic they're studying and think that's of a few days ago. Another one.

12:06
So, I think that the product will still have an evolution, don't know what's gonna happen.

12:33
By being democratized in the society that we have. So I think it's still gonna be evolving, but on the other hand, I think for humans in order to adopt to the changing world, we are also going to change and I would like to speak. Also at the in after technology, in a human-centric way yet, it's like opinion.

13:06
Now you know, people who medical it, get it first, which is also interesting because they're gonna like these are people who can't move and they're gonna have a lot of time to get really good at it and they're gonna get really good at it, but these people are going to email later.

13:27
Be really good at it. It's going to be going to the present things. I'd really like and makes up the look forward to your series the first person. Yep. But you know what did one study and I won't keep bringing it back to the social media will have access to more power and compare to others.

13:53
I love that other people are also thinking those were into business, thinking about the social logical impact that this would have. But of course, otherwise, scientifically technologically. This is a bigger one still, for the real time, of course, but the social logical aspect is something that always worry, that it's a lot of us there, right?

14:09
That's the following. If you want to talk about other things like that, if you logical access, that I would love to learn more, okay? They would like to comment again. I don't know about the side effects. You know that this would do if it's used massively, but I would just like to look at it at the network effect or what the because in the past, look at how our computers are so big and how so expensive and because of more slow, how people are using, you know, our mobile now that even the poor people, of course, also have mobiles now, and who could imagine that only in a few years, people would have access to this particular kind of technology about like maybe 10 15 years before you.

14:55
But imagine the even a cell phone that's being used. Personally, you're even by businesses. It's like, you know, so big and to stretch it out before that a computer is like a, you know, how many buildings and how much does it cost? But now it is in your phone and we're using it in clubhouse with a better capacity that the ones that they had before and to democratize it we have Androids that cheaper scale where there is a massive use of such by people.

15:26
So probably I think because of network effect more people are using such a certain kind of technology, it becomes cheaper and also because there is much production of the parts, it becomes more unique with the people. I'm just speaking at the, of the point of view of having this network effect.

15:45
Because I just suddenly remembered how people will, you know, like, even Bill Gates and Bill Joy will create the Java, they would sneak inside. The building of this university who having a computer, because they would just like to use it more, but can you imagine that? It used to be several buildings and now it's in your packet, it's in your phone and it's more powerful.

16:08
That's what just I thinking on the fut.

16:17
Yeah, a lot of electronics that we call throttle a also have like, you know, these ships that are never been depressive decades ago.

16:34

Then now it's working way up to our brains.

16:41
Yeah, little William. Did you want to ask something? Oh yeah, I'm just got on. So I haven't heard a lot of the conversation, I, but it's it for me, a very important one. I've been a futureist for a whole lot of years, but I'm also a psychologist. And one of the concerns that I have is that as we move into these incredible areas and and neural link, and all the rest of the things that are happening are giving us an incredible amount of control in the world and certainly on many levels.

17:24
This is a very positive thing. We as human beings are set in a dualistic system though. So we have the ability to move out and control, but we also have an internal ability to deepen our own experience and if everything is moving out into kind of the material world and to control the danger is that the extreme of this are domination.

17:57
And we as human beings are in a position where if we get to outside of that balance between a control and kind of our inner experience, it starts moving into a real scary kind of experience and we can see this in totality and cultures. We can see it in what happened with the nazis, and we really need to be able to stand back and look.

18:31
And see. What is this going to do on us as a species, if we just look at the experiences and the and the the various machines themselves, we miss the human experience, which is infinitely deeper than any kind of externalization that we can do. I'll stop there. Yeah, that's an interesting thought especially because this research is suggest that our habit of taking you photographs has reduced our ability to retain visual memory as much.

19:06
And other thing that Eric mentioned earlier on, was that how we all carry mobile phones today, no way. We're all already cyborgs because we don't leave anywhere without us. Hibernating attachments our mobile code and the human attention span has drop significantly because of our new ways of processing information.

19:26
That's very interesting. For one of the things that the psychologists that I see particularly with younger people is what would have been called dissociation from a sense of biological reality, is like, we're becoming much more oriented towards our ideas and our fantasies and we're in some ways losing our bodies and I just, I don't know what is going to happen with this and it's a good thing about things that it's a bit of both.

19:59
But if we don't stop and really reflect on what's happening is and find ourselves in some really difficult situations.

20:15
I don't think delicate it's probably you know, kind of regress this into or it's gonna make this dependent on technology obviously but I didn't see that to be necessarily your best thing. And my reasoning is that evolution itself. So the early homosapiens actually had sort of like a very memory, special memory is opposed to us?

20:52
I would say because of these things that's when you science that actually studying, this would say, whether the reason it's that they had to memorize different means. Different kind of together kind of situation where the tried to identify like which one is not edible fruit is poisonous and frequents which part the area.

21:24
So despite itself would require tons of thinking, but this morning where we kind of, you know, like delicate those toasts mentalities, like nobody's gonna like not everyone's gonna be a farmer, right? So somebody who's up to farming would probably like specialize in that area and that, that removes all the things rivals.

21:52
All that mic, flutter, that would have been spread or leverage into, you know, memorizing, those different places for food to be obtained. So, I think that, that's where we could probably are in this point like how we could digitize most of our memories. I don't see that to be necessarily bad thing 
because we can leverage our mind into thinking something better.

22:17
But of course, like there's gonna be strong dependency because technologies becoming even more convenient for us to see that to me in other present nature, but there is also a trade-off that we can actually use this to our advantage. Say that, and throughout two of this, I love your points and it just reminded me.

22:38
So, I come from a literature background and I know initially, so literature students have a community in kind of look at everything with scooters back of how it's gonna move at all, it becomes reality. So remember, even though I think today, what we're doing is the already are halfway through.

22:54
Let's do the entire way and let us figure out everything. Thanks.

23:32
Let me make it point in. Like, if the objective is to there must be an objective to everything that we're doing, right? So what would be the main key objective? If it also not solving this parities. So I think one of the interesting applications of neuralink and I'm quoting a friend on clubbers on this.

23:51
The fundamental role of technology is to bring the cost of something to ask close to zero as possible. So I think one of the reasons why we might look at cybernetic implants is to reduce the amount of energy required for the brain to perform certain tasks. Now not entirely sure what task does might be but perhaps certain forms of reasoning or certain forms of communication.

24:16
If the technology could be adapted to reduceing, the cost that is incurred at the brain level. I think that would be a potential application I cost in terms of energy.

24:34

As for your question, finally motivation at this point, that drives technology as the profit model for the most part whether that has positive or not just thing that is probably going to be something that we're going to find out together. But the yeah, at this point, because they got the private sector is becoming horrible research.

25:02
Okay. So, primarily complicated by government institutions, which kind of repel the recording statehood, sort of steered, the direction of the inner different types of research. So that's probably one thing that I would see, but like I said or whether that's a good or bad, it's something that we have to see for sleeping since it's gonna be the hands of the private that we have to be more or vigilant because this
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio