b0229y ctpr
(audio transcription needs fixing)
Pattern Threshold
00:00
Okay, so let's go from
00:07
Then neurons producing notes are ways. Soliton wave patterns. So later on with Soliton waves, so late horn waves. So, let on where
00:37
The Google can't seem to recognize the word solaton. It spelled s. Oh LIT. O n s o. L. I t o n soliton. Wave. There you go. So it's on wave soluton. Wave. No. So later on wave soluton wave, I is changing silicone to solution Celaton
01:26
Silicon solution. Sellatene soliton. Soliton soliton, solaton. So later on soliton, huh? It's very interesting to see all the different ways that the voice recording machine is interpreting the words that I'm saying,
02:05
I think that would make the difference where the as if it was playing back their words sequence that I learned to itself.
02:23
Because that is essentially like that's what makes consciousness conscious. As I'm not just receiving the pattern and I'm playing it back to myself. I'm not just seeing what I'm seeing my mind is creating a representation of what's being seen and the evidence of that is like yeah you know your eyes are covered in blood vessels it but you don't see blood vessels got in your eyes.
02:53
There's actually, if you if you there is a, there's a blind spot in each of your eyes. And if you hold up the hold of it pencil, it just the right distance and just right angle, you can see, you can put, you can position the eraser over the blind spot of your eye.
03:20
And you can notice the eraser disappear when it's covering area of the blind spot, maybe literally can't see in a part of your eye. Your eye doesn't capture everything that's in front of it, but your eye moves around a lot, and it's able to construct the entire picture of what's around you by taking the pieces.
03:56
But integrating pieces into a coherent picture and
04:07
It would do that. It's it's the the goal is not to figure out it's sort of like a sequence of spatial to it's a sequence of
04:24
And it's, it's, it's learning. Sequence, of spatial maps of frequencies that are themselves different
04:46
What I say coincidence patterns and did sequences bands.
04:55
To the quintiles pattern happen. A temporal or spatial or temporal spatial interface prints. It's better happen. It's it's it's yeah or did a that a pattern happened actually that's just the coincidence of still the better. Well, I mean, at the renovated, it's a coincidence, but it really is about the pattern happens.
05:24
Now, let's see if you have a pattern of detected, It's just a edger of a pattern, right? Just head to the pattern. Right? Well, you are even what the really small amount of information you're making.
05:47
Face. Differential, that has a spatial and tempo.
05:57
Property. Because if it because if a non-fires at a sequence then it has a spatial location relative to the oscillation and it gets. So that means that it gets it can be recognized in a spatial way as contributing to spatial patterns, something else. So in essence, it's like yeah, it's like it is like you have a wave with three.
06:42
Types of properties, it's in. Those could be frequency time mean.
07:00
Space frequency timing and space frequency. I mean like the face is frequency and microscopes like hurts, what is a regular frequency and then the timing
07:34
When it's going to not only deviate, okay?
07:48
Sound like a deviate but it is going to sound like an idea in terms of frequency, but it's also going to be in terms of timing and in terms of space, all at the same time, like any change in any one of these is going to result in changing and the others.
08:10
But what kind of macroscale, right? You see, lots of neurons that are making lots of sultan ways each with a number. So it's like each one has a position property right? X y and z, where the x is the frequency. The y is the timing.
08:38
Why is sequence time? So there's a frequency. There's a sequence time.
08:51
And then there's spatial pattern and all these, then all three of these properties are sort of tied together. And interesting way, they all detected by each of 10 rights here and far away.
09:15
And they're all producing patterns that have spatial spatial distribution. And they have patterns have hurts and patterns have a time and hurts. Because if HTR TV hurts,
09:55
Just watching. Google Transcript. Fuck up.
10:04
If your TV GRTZ hurts her shared church hurts hurt, hats, hats. Hats hearts hurts hat hearts hearts hurts parts of hurts hurts.
10:48
Hurts hurts hurts. It's that hurts sides. I'm just, I'm really trying to say HER TZ hurts or HZ has. It's the heads ages HZ heads, not heads, has whatever.
11:26
So,
11:32
Now, the way, that's the reason I said, waves it, so the action potential has a waveform, right? The shape that determined by an amplitude and duration. So has an amplitude and a derision. Now, it was a second. It has a frequency an altitude duration, the amplitude, but they're all that it's tied together the duration.
12:11
Carries amplitude. Okay.
12:17
But there is he, I guess, Thursday.
12:25
The maybe there's that, like the gate synaptic gate opening. I don't know. I don't know. Like like how, how much variation could there be in the cycle windows? When do the gates open? And when do they close? There is one thing that opens the gates or something else. I close the gates, but the thing that opens the gates does that have a different magnitude, or spatial pattern.
13:01
Anything that closes the gates, right? We talked about the gradient concentration, being something that could close the gates faster or more slowly creating concentration of potassium, right? But it remains through scene. Well, what are the other? What are the other factors there? That could be opening or closing the gates or slowly.
13:50
computation talk next week and expert on dendritic computation.
14:10
And,
14:16
So what I'm saying is like okay so what if okay so what I'm thinking? It's like okay, once these. So my birds seems like that's a very regular process, like whatever it takes to trigger the case to open. Once it opens that's gonna be like this, it's gonna be like the action potential I think is going to open pretty much the same way each time and including in between each time I think because it's like it's like that at that point.
14:59
It's like that is the firing thing now. I don't know, but I don't know, right? Because it could be like, what if? Okay? So it's like, okay, so we say, well, there's a threshold ask for each of threshold before fires. Well, what happens if the threshold goes way over?
15:20
Because that's what's interesting, a deep learning there, is a sort of like it's it's it's like either if there's an either or for whether the threshold has, then Matt. But there is a, there's a vector that represents sort of like how far above that's threshold. Has gone. The vector represents a threshold that has gone higher and there's a question there.
16:03
So, is that this is possible that if a threshold is, is met and in a way that is much higher with that, with that threshold, it's like see, there's something, it's like, okay, so there's the sodium content gradient, and there's the task of gradient concentration. And if the sodium concentration is,
16:42
Sufficiently like greater than the no no. What I'm saying is like, if the if that and if the dendritic computation is significantly greater with Android computation that results in an SMS explosion is significantly greater than what, then the minimum that it would take to cost so much to explode.
17:20
The question is is there somehow is that higher amount going to be conveyed through the action? Potential.
17:37
In terms of in terms of having a greater spike and a short duration, I'm saying, it's like see the potassium. Well, the delay of the potassium channels will delay when the spikes stops but it's a spike is high enough.
18:09
Then the idea here is that
18:26
Yeah, I'm getting fuzzy on new details. I'm getting fuzzy on the details.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio
