=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0228y Neurons Pattern Fpgas talk to yourself
First recorded: 2021-08-08T04:48:06.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/ecb42d09-de50-43eb-999f-710958f9c65b
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Okay, so it's building a bridge for the pathways between neurons, between dendrites, are changing all the time because they're building a physical structure to represent a pattern.
It's like building the riverbed to match the river.
Say, okay, well, we've detected this pattern, built it, built this pattern.
Like this pathway that we formulated in connections between cells, this pathway represents this sort of sequence where these cells are going to fire in a sequence.
And so that we've established, basically, we're establishing the timing or the sequence of when these patterns get triggered.
So we're predicting that we're going to get a similar pattern down the road.
We're predicting this pattern is going to come up again.
And next time, we're going to be ready for it because we learned it last time.
So we're creating a physical manifestation.
It's like going from a software representation of a pattern to a, like an FPGA, like a field programmable gatorade.
Like we can start off with software deep learning, but then we can progress on to FPGAs, right?
And the chip itself is just going to constantly, like, be reprogramming in itself.
That's what we want.
Reprogramming new pathways between different cells.
The sum of the brainwaves represents what's being seen.
The sum of the brainwaves, not at the, I would say that, at the neuron level, right?
The sum of the brainwaves at the neural circuit level, at the neural column level.
Like that, like that is going to create a rendering that the cells can decode.
Because it's creating a rendering space, a sparse and distributed representation, but a spatially distributed representation.
And because it's spatially distributed representation, the network as a whole can, can, uh, and must,
the network as a whole must, be responsible for collectively, as, as a, recognizing, and, and, um,
if the neurons are collectively putting out a burst, while other neurons are listening to the bursts,
then you, um, and taking turns doing that, then what happens is you have the ability for, uh,
uh, the computer to talk to itself, to make its own sounds, and to listen to its own words, right?
And to play back its own music, and to sing its own songs, and to talk to itself, basically.
