b0231y ctpr (audio) Vr Choices China
00:00
Imagine that. You have a TM to a movie, that is like every 10 minutes like the movie changes genre, so it's like, it starts out, like, you know, I guess it's like, yeah, you, if you starts out with like wizards and which is, and then it changes genre to like, all of a sudden where the wages of witches are actually inside a computer program.
00:34
And so now we're out now we're taking off our our mass and we're actually in reality, right? But then it's also like a detention center inside of dystopia. It's like a fascist opia and people are, people are playing a game in VR. They're playing in VR in order to escape the the dullness of their, of their daily lives.
00:57
And we're so trapped in a fascist just opia right. But like, like they secret, like, like they play VR and secret, they're too. Like they like have to work like 12 hours for no pay and but they have a place to live and they have food and stuff and they have like, and they have like, they can pick up ration and there's like, there's like a community center, you know.
01:34
It's like people have to have lives but they're just like, but they don't have any choices. They can't like choose another job. They can't choose another career like you just do what you're told to do and you do like you work like you work all day. And then you go home.
01:51
And and if you have any energy left, you could play VR if you had it. But it's like, it's like band. It's like it's like bands. So people play VR and secret. We've just gone from like like a fantasy universe to a science fiction universe or people who look like an into the matrix like or sort out online, right to like then it's like
02:23
It's like the and the handmades tail. It's like the handmaid's tale, right? The excited VR and stuff. And, but it's like nerve care. So they can like, so I reality is controlled by fascist government profession or the communist government of China, like, reality is controlled by the Commerce. Manor, China, You have net people, no longer have choices over what, what did you know that this doesn't?
03:03
It doesn't really like it's like if it is a little bit harder to say like yeah, you like the government tells you what? Your daughters. You don't have any choice. You can't ever know. There's no upward mobility. Like you just you have one job for the rest of your life and like and if you have any kids they have to pay to replace.
03:29
You're gonna take over your job, right? And,
03:40
The other thing to do is for trying to like start to start to outsource kind of like outsource work. Like yeah, we can't do this work for you anymore, we just no choice. It has to be, outsourced out to have done everything. Then if you in China to do this work,
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio
