b0235y ctpr
(audio transcription needs to be fixed)
Neurons Consciousness Anesthesia
00:00
That if you apply pathetic. So drugged brings about anesthesia, then this has a very specific cellular effect. So the sales we study the pyramidal neurons, which are the main class of excitatory neurons in the brain, they have kind of two compartments. One is the classic compartment around the axon that is the basal compartment.
00:31
The other however, is like top of the cortex, the surface of the cortex is called apical compartment. We will maybe clarify these terms a bit later, but the point that he was doing thing was that anesthesia he coupled or basically functionally cut these two compartments of a single neuron and proposed.
00:59
Listening, a compartment is like a section of the dendritic trait. So basically, you could say that the neuron before it extends any output, then it spikes. It has two compartments. It has to integrate between these two compartments, or the information, we will go into that later. But what not to talk about?
01:18
Showing me, that is that anesthesia cut off this integration it. Basically cut off these two parts and if this was so amazing, I mean, to think about that, wow, this there is a similar effect that anesthesia has and that is probably related to consciousness. So, although I didn't want to work on consciousness, I had no other way.
01:50
This was the way I had to do this because this finding was simply so amazing and poor. If you think that I didn't explain it, well, why it was amazing? Then ask me something and I can try to maybe rephrase something or explain my excitement better now and just about you mention general anesthesia.
02:10
So these are assumed the gap. Anesthesia agents like propofol will let the interesting things that he did different worlds. So it was also him in and is of fluorine and you're a thing and that was exactly the point. So Paul was saying that, I mean has a completely different effect on the on the level of circuits.
02:36
However, there on the left. Well, you saw the same effect that an aesthetic couple is single neuron, and that was really like a cellular effect of anesthesia that immediately told me that look there is a cellular mechanism of consciousness. So so the theory is that the what's causing these anesthesia's to eliminate consciousness is that they decouple the two parts of the neuron.
03:11
And so the signals can't be combined the apical on the basement. If you see it like that, then it sounds like really boring theory, right? You know that makes progress is big. Yeah, well you actually do things. So one thing why I was such an struggling and frustrated consciousness over ideas before before working with model darker and matthew was that there is a lot of papers that showed me some kind of global integration in the brains so that it's some people even write in top review papers.
03:53
That what is a consensus is that consciousness relies on distributed processing, along the thalamocortical so which is like brain part involving the cortex and the thalamus, basically that it is some kind of a global phenomena and many theories go around that way, but that was kind of a boring for me.
04:17
That was I thought, well, it's global, but what does it really mean? And now here, when we have this local mechanism, I mean very local like inside the particular cell. Then we saw that we can explain all of the results that are in the literature of this global dynamics.
04:39
It can explain that by this local mechanism, because if you cut this processing within the single parameter neurons, then actually you cut it in the whole network because these cells, the so-called layer five parameter cells. They are the cells that send the information to thalamus. They are the cells that send long range information in contact.
05:05
So if you cut these cells, then you will cut all the global dynamics. So we can actually explain why people with FMRI etc had observed. This global signals and why psychedelics or anesthesia or sleep had affected this global dynamics. It's not because consciousness is something global but it's because there is a local mechanism within each cell each parameter cell that is the coupled.
05:41
For example, by anesthesia probably in sleep, I discovering is changed to psychedelics for example and this effects and explains the global dynamics. So that was the first point where we thought that this is actually something interesting. Because we can explain the data with a local biophysical, very specific mechanism that I guess what?
06:09
You're saying, seems consistent with the idea that contrast has a global phenomenon if ever let's say global workspace theory or global neuronal workspace, this idea that I think with Daniel then it calls him in the brain that information is sort of wildly known throughout the cortex and assured among cortical areas.
06:23
But that to work, the context information from one part of the brain is to be available to other parts of the brain. And if that context information is coming in through these typical dendrites, then wouldn't this just be identifying, the integration mechanism for this global phenomenon tech work? Yeah, exactly.
06:40
I mean, I was, I was not saying that though, this global findings about the global signatures of consciousness are crap, right? I mean, I was just saying that there is actually a local mechanism behind it. So we really think that global neural workspace theory would benefit from actually considering these findings and our proposal.
07:03
Because this could be a mechanism how you integrate information and now talking about the information integration. We actually also think that they integrated information theory benefit from this. Because here we have a very specific mechanism that can cut the information integration within the Salomon cortical circuits. So our audit proposed is not really conflict with this theories, but we hope that it kind of complements them and keeps a very specific mechanism.
07:38
So that is our point, in fact, these global a phenomena are interesting. They do exist. However, if you won't to understand consciousness then perhaps, we have the knowledge. That each neuron consists of two parts is based on applicable compartments. And the mechanism of controlling, the global dynamics comes from this local switch between these two compartments.
08:09
Sure. Well, if you look at example, the history of genetics, the idea of genes were around for essentially, but then when DNA was found and then finally, we had in this case, I'm like here like some or how the gene body could be happening. So even we have these high level but sometimes too big models for how consciousness might be working, really, and if you identify as specific neural mechanism, it's an important piece of the puzzle.
08:34
So there are, you know, some different views on consciousness out there and anyone who's listening, if you want to raise your hand, and it will take some questions and kind of explore kind of normal mechanisms of consciousness generally. But so one idea out there, of course, is the information integration theory.
08:50
What this mechanism you're proposing was seem to be aligned anyway. Within information, integration theory as a proposing, one mechanism by which information could be integrated? Would you agree or not? Yeah, that's what I said. Also that the inputs I mean people be happy if people from different theories could be saying that world, this is indeed by exciting mechanism that we could understand specific switch points for that.
09:19
It can explain the global dynamics that can explain how the global workspace is set up, or that can explain how the information integration happens and these kind of controlled in the brain, right? So something like that. However I mean probably it's also important to stress. The other aspect of the theory which goes a bit yawned.
09:42
This first maybe more biophysical point and other aspect is that? We then look at. Okay, we know that there is this tech coupling of within the parameter serial about what does it mean functionally and then when we start looking at it, then we did the brain. You see this beautiful structure that the top down context information?
10:13
So prior knowledge information about the previous things information coming from the model goes today because then right go today pickle compartment whereas the information from the world from the senses from the external goes to the basal compartment. So this is also very important for us to say that. Look, it's not just that you decouple to parts of the neuron.
10:41
You actually decouple the internal front external. You actually decouple context from the sensory you decouple. The model from data that there is this functional thing. That happens that these important and this is central for our theory because now we say that. Look conscious experience is always affected by prior knowledge.
11:14
I can bring some examples later many series. I mean, for example, the global neural workspace theory or the integrated information theory, they do not explain it naturally. Do not explain simply with the basic principles of why it is like that. Why God just has affected by prior knowledge, the theory of mindset, for example, does that and theories that based on predictive coding to that.
11:43
However, here we say that. Look, here's also our idea that also naturally inherently explains this. Why going to his experience is always affected by prior knowledge. This is because this apical compartment. The top compartment carries this context. It carries this prior knowledge. Yeah, and I was going to ask about that because obviously why you main idea there in the mechanism consciousness is the idea of the what we're experiencing the perceptual content of consciousness are really those top-down predictions or top-down interpretation.
12:26
If you will, on outside world that's being aligned with sensory input. So aligning that with your model, it sounds like you would say the apical compartment. The context integrating apartment is the is the carrying that top down signal and the basal compartment is carrying the bottom up signal and the integration at the parameter.
12:43
Cell level is what's combining the top down of the bottom up together and allowing the top down to be the context for interpreting the bottom up. Is that does that sound right? Exactly, exactly. And when I was kind of away from going like a very simple phenomenon, so you're doing an experiment.
13:07
Experiment. But you have to attend to steam today, I'm with John Arun. Is joining us from Estonia. Great to have you on our neuroscience AI and consciousness conversations series, what got my attention is that you have a paper titled cellular mechanism of consciousness processing, and you propose, a normal mechanism of consciousness that paper was suggested to me by both Lake Richards and Billy George.
13:35
So those interested in chat with you about it. And we've been having ongoing conversations about emphasis on earth science here on this forum. So glad to have here. Thank you very much for the invitation, it's a great year, an honor. So one of the things I want to start with is just to find out a little bit about what motivated your original interests in this problem.
13:54
And what problem is that you're interested in? Is it neuroscience? Is it consciousness? Is it something else? So how did this journey start? So hi everyone. So, I'm originally from 1993, so many people in Europe, talking about, but for example, sky was coated here. But anyway, I went to the study psychology in Berlin and then there in my second month and the first month of falling grants studies.
14:25
There I wasn't the library and I store book by John Legolas and Nobel Prize winner for medicine physiology here. Broke down the silences, but he was an interesting guy because he believed that consciousness is something different from the rain. So it's, he was strong believer and supporter of twilightism.
14:51
Anyway, that was the book called me that got me interested in gorgeous because I read it and I realized there that hey we have invented vaccines, we have sent people to move, we humans with all kinds of amazing things but we don't know how the brain generates or is related to consciousness and that was just a boom moment for me.
15:18
And after that, there was just so cold up in this program that ever, since I've been kind of working on it. A bit, at least. That's great. And did you mention that? You spend some time with singer and studying gamma isolations? Yes. So I mean I started working and studying wonderfulness myself so I read on both the books that I had that I could find and then I got really interested.
15:46
Also in gamma sales I was still undergrad student and then I was in some seminar about PI, from both singers department was presenting and they asked some questions and then she invited me to do a PhD there. And I mean to those who don't know, the world singer is one of the most important neuroscientists in Europe.
16:10
Now he's already known but I mean back then he was really one of these key people who invented really and showed that nations are important for perception and brain. So I was really happy to go to to, by PhD department. And what's your view on camera isolations today? I was super fascinated by camo oscillations, but then, then, I mean, I started to study them and I worked with interpreting a single.
16:44
So, signals that are measured from inside the human brain,

 told me a look at come oscillations. And I started to look at cam oscillations, but they saw that way the minute these this look like something else, so they cover large part of the spectrum.
17:05
So not only like or 60, but they go from 40 to 200 and people in the department were saying. Yeah, you can order that ignore that is oscillations but I was not so convinced. So I started to talk to many people in the world. And in the end, I was the one who convinced or single also that these are not God.
17:25
Possibilities that different phenomenon that this is related to your spiking. And the fact that I really stupid PSG student, who shows something new to the whole department kind of made me think of wait a minute okay? How much to be then really know about commercials and the more I looked into it, the more I look, the more programs are so in the end, although my PhD started with the big hope of contributing, something to understand that synchrony is the mechanism of consciousness it ended without it, it ended with our completely different contribution.
18:09
I say just to complete that topic. So these higher frequency oscillations, call them demo or let's say everything over 40, hrs. Do you do sort of see how well for them? Get anything, but some people say it's helping the binding problem. It's is part of amplifying signals between cortical areas other things.
18:25
Yeah, me definitely after my, my group on that I do think that there is a lot of high around dissociation and this was even more intense like 10 years ago like maybe there was still single autism things about cam oscillations but then there was this new generation of researchers including me.
18:48
You said, look, many of the results that have been attributed to come. Oscillations are actually reflecting some kind of abroad bad signal that these indexing describing activity. So it's actually dead, oh positive, what can oscillations were saying? So there might be still a road in some situations. We know that there is a road.
19:16
However, this rule is definitely not so broad. And I mean, currently, I don't think that saying that comes nations are kind of a viable mechanism of consciousness. Makes a lot of sense. There's simply not a lot of clear cut proof for that. I say, well let's go to your paper, a cellular mechanism of consciousness is kind of last year and trends in cognitive sciences or texts as people call it.
19:43
And can you just maybe give an outline of what you're a proposal? There is, what is generating information theory or went back? Is that we think is going on and why you think it relates to consciousness? Maybe backtrack a bit? Because what was interesting for me was also that after my PhD.
20:00
I was, I was Interest. I wanted to sort of the program of consciousness, but in the end of the PhD, I just showed that dates. Very hard to study. So we had one paper that is relatively famous for showing that you cannot study consciousness. The way people. So then from 2013, you like, 2018, I had a relationship go phase of a relationship with.
20:30
I didn't, and they wanted to actually do this way. I studied neuroscience reading the artificial diligence, and then I wanted to do more hardcore neuroscience. I went to Berlin to the lab of matriarchal to actually study a kind of neural computational building. I didn't want to study consciousness but then when I was doing there, my first round dog went to postdocs and one post of showed me something amazing and disposed of was the dark asuzuki and he showed me his recent data rich, demonstrated that if you apply an anesthetic.
21:25
So our drug that brings about anesthesia. Then this has a very specific similar effect. So the sentence, we study the pyramid of neurons, which are the main class of excitatory neurons in the brain. They have kind of to compartments on is the classic compartment around the axon that is the base or compartment the other.
21:54
However, you like top of the cortex, the surface of the cortex is called a bigger compartment. We will maybe clarify these terms a bit later, but the point that he was showing then was that anesthesia, he coupled or basically functionally cut. These two compartments of a single neuro and proposed.
22:21
Listening, a compartment is like a section of the genetic trade. So basically, you could say that the neuron before it sends any output they spikes, it has to compartment. It has to integrate apartment for the information. We will go into that later. But what more to talk about showing me that is that honesty is here.
22:44
Degradation the basically cut off these two parts and if this was super amazing, I mean, to think about that, wow, this there is a similar effect that anesthesia has and that is probably related to consciousness. So although I didn't want to work on consciousness, I had no other way.
23:12
This was the way I had to do this because this finding was simply so amazing and poor. If you think that I didn't explain it, well, why it was amazing them, ask me something that I can try to maybe rephrase something or explain my excitement better. Well that just about the message analyzes.
23:32
These are I certainly the governorship anesthesia agents. Like propofol will let the interesting thing was that he did the difference once. So it was also githamin and iso flooring, and you're a thing and that was exactly the point. So Paul was saying that mean has a completed different effect on the older level of circuits.
23:58
However, there on the left, we saw the same effect that an aesthetic couple is single neural, but that was really like a cellular effect of anesthesia that immediately told me that look there is a cellular mechanism of a bunch of stress. So so the theory is that the what's causing these anesthesia's to eliminate consciousness is that they decouple the two parts of the neurone.
24:33
And so the signals can't be combined the indical on the baseline. It's like that. Then it sounds like
24:45
Anything that makes progress as yeah. You actually do things. So one thing why I was actually struggling and frustrated with consciousness over several years before thoughtful, was that there is a lot of papers that showed just some kind of global integration in the brain. So that it's some people even write in top review papers.
25:15
That what is a consent is? It is that consciousness relies on distribute processing along the thalamoportical networks, which is like brain part, involving the cortex. And the thalamus basically that it is a kind of a global phenomena, many series, go all out that way, but that was kind of a boring for me.
25:39
That why I thought? Well, it's global. But what does it really mean? And now here when we have this local mechanism, I'm very local like inside a particular cell. Then we saw that we can explain all of the results that are in the literature of this global dynamics, we can explain that by this local mechanism.
26:04
Because if you cut this processing within the single private neurons that actually, you cut it in the whole network because these cells, the so-called layer five parameter cells. They are the cells that send the information to thalamus, which they are the cells that send long-range information important, these cells, then you can cut, all the global dynamics.
26:33
So we can actually explain why people in ethereum are in which etc, ahead of serve. This global sequence and why psychedelics, or anesthesia, or sleep had affected this group but dynamics because of course, is something global, but it's because there is a local mechanism within each cell each parameter cell that is the coupled.
27:03
For example, by anesthesia probably sleep and the discovery is changed to psychedelics for example and this affects and explains the global dynamics. So that was the first point. Why we thought that this is actually something interesting? Because we can explain data with a local bio physical very specific mechanism.
27:29
But I guess what you're saying seems consistent with the idea that consciousness is a global phenomena but let's say a global workspace theory or global neural workspace. This idea that I think what Daniel then it calls thing in the brain that information is sort of widely known throughout the cortex and assured among cordial areas.
27:46
But that to work, The context information, from one part of the brain is to be available to other parts of the brain. And if that context information is coming in through these apical dead rights, then wouldn't this just be identifying, the integration mechanism for this global phenomenon to work?
28:01
Yeah, exactly. I mean, I was, I wasn't saying that though, this global finding is about the global signatures of gorgeousness are prep, right? I mean, I was just saying that there is actually a local mechanism behind it. So we think that, global neural workspace theory would benefit from actually, considering is finding and our proposal.
28:25
Because this could be a mechanism how you integrate information and now talking about the information integration. We actually also think that they integrated information theory benefit from this. Because here we have a very specific mechanism that can cut day information integration within the political circuits. So our proposed is not the brilliant conflict with this theories but we hope that it kind of compliments them and keeps a very specific mechanism.
29:00
So that is our point in fact that these global phenomena are interesting. They do exist. However, if you want to understand consciousness that perhaps we have knowledge that each new run consists of two parts and studies are that we call compartments. And the mechanism of controlling the global dynamics comes from this local switch between these two compartments.
29:31
Sure. Well, I do if you look at, for example, the history of genetics, the idea of genes for around for a century, but then when DNA was found and then finally, we had them, in this case, on molecular makeup, some for how the gene model could be happening. So maybe we have these higher high level, sometimes big models for how consciousness by the working early, if you identify it as specific normal mechanism, it's a, it's an important piece of a puzzle.
29:56
So there are, you know, some different views of consciousness out there. And anyone who's listening, if you want to raise your hand and will take some questions and kind of explore a kind of growing back in the consciousness, generally. But so one idea out there, of course, is the information integration theory.
30:12
What this mechanism you're proposing, you seem to be aligned. Anyway, within an information integration theory is proposing. One mechanism by, which information can be integrated a degree or not? Yeah, that's what I said. Also, that in which I mean, we would be happy if people from from different theories could be seeing the world.
30:34
This is indeed exciting mechanism that we could understand. As there's specific switch oil for that can explain the global dynamics that can explain how the global road spaces set up. All that, can explain how the information integration happens at these kind of control in the brain, right? So something like that.
30:56
However I mean probably it's also important to stress. The other aspect of the theory which goes a bit more dispersed anymore by a physical point, Another aspect is that we then look at. Okay, we know that there is this decoupling of within the paradigm seriously but what does it mean?
31:20
Functionally and then when we start looking at it then we did the brain. You. Structure that they took down context information. So prior knowledge information about the previous information. Coming from the model goes today and content, right? Goes today, become part rest information from the world from the sentences from the external goes to the basal number.
31:54
So this is also very important for us to say that. Look, it's not just that you decouple to hearts of the neuron. You actually decouple the internal from the external. You actually decouple the context from the sensory, the couple the model from data to there, is this functional thing.
32:22
That happens that these important and this is central for all theory because now we say that. Look gorgeous experience is always affected by prior knowledge to bring some examples later many series. I mean for example, the global neural workspace theory all the integrated information theory, they do not explain it.
32:48
Naturality, don't not explain simply with the basic principles of why it is like that. Why coaches affected by prior knowledge, the theory of unexcept, for example, does that and the theories that based on predictive coaching, do that? However, here we say that obvious. Also, our idea that also naturally inherently explains this.
33:14
Why coaches experience is always affected by prior knowledge. This is because this apical compartment. The top compartment carries this context. It carries this prior knowledge. Yeah, and I was going to say ask about that because obviously why you main idea there in the mechanism of consciousness, is the idea of other experiencing, the perceptual content of consciousness are really those top-down predictions or top-down interpretation if you will outside world, that's being aligned with sensory input.
33:50
So aligning that with your model, it sounds like you would say the apical compartment. The context integrating compartment is the is the carrying that top-down signal and the basal compartment is carrying the bottom up signal and the integration at the parameter. Cell level is what's combining the top down of the bottom up together and a lot of the top down to be the context for interpreting the bottom up.
34:12
Is that does that sound right? Exactly. And when I was away from going to sleep, then I did some work. The reverse starting like very to doing an experiment.
34:29
Then the steamroller. And then sometimes I then to some stimuli sometimes the other and you are asked, oh, how well, did you? And we do this task and then suddenly be removed the stimulus complete. There's no stimulus. But we still ask the subject. How well did you perceive the stimulus in terms out that subjects of the claim?
34:52
Sometimes that they perceive the stimulus very well. And so the point is that, in these kinds of setups where people have a strong expectation about stimuli, then, they can perceive stimuli even if none is there and other people have also shown this effect. And the problem for me was that I said, the big theories of consciousness could not really explain this phenomenal, why?
35:21
This prior knowledge can create something out of nothing. So that was one of the key issues of why. I mean, I was especially happy also about finding out this mechanism and putting this also into the paper that this is important for the science of co-anchors because sometimes be mainly perceived, as you said, what the prior tells us not not what's really out there in the world and in some, let's say, strong forms of that model.
35:50
As some would argue that, we only see the prior that the sensory input is being used to modulate our fiction of what's out there in destination if you will. Yeah and principally. You can see that our similar mechanism is completely compatible with that. That would be a mechanism of how this is done.
36:08
Actually that the prior or the moon is primary. This is the main thing. This is what carries us, but then through this dendritic integration mechanism that he proposed, you can need to break the external world into into this model that into this common shoes experience. Yes, I see it.
36:29
Now another idea out there is that a consciousness is partly facilitated by recording feedback loops, Douglas house that are would call these strange loops. Yeah, I think Victor, lemme has talked about top down at bottom up pathways, which I think would be consistent with your mechanism, you're identifying, but you have a view on the role of any of our current processing and consciousness.
36:50
Yeah. Yeah, I mean this, I mean, then what these going today? Become important, right? This in some sense required, it is in some sense, a loop, right? So I mean I actually wanted to name the paper at first, the loop of quarters was right because it is it makes a move.
37:08
But if you look at the figures of our paper then we actually make this loops because this is this is very important. The main difference with dark hostess is, of course, that he was 3,000 really care about what. Exactly. Are there neural mechanism? You pioneered the idea of that there are loops processing groups, but it doesn't care about what is the relief, limitation.
37:30
Whereas here, we care. Really a lot about this implementation, right? This is the whole point of the paper that this is important, which sell types are they, where are these loops going to? The there are going to thalamus, for example and which kinds of infertility, they become compartment. They could go come from cortex.
37:52
They could come from thalamus, they could come from a mutila from different cortical, areas from the meter temporal lobe and this is the main difference to victor number, right? Who? First of all it was not also really tend to care or didn't know back then about the cellular mechanisms and secondly he was really interested or is interested in the recurrent loops between visual cortical areas or sensory cortical areas, right?
38:22
So that it's a higher self recording area projecting back to a lower particular area and we say it's not the important areas. It's also talamic area low and all of this area kind of different information. But all of them contribute to us and to cultures experience in particular, it sounds like fairly advanced about how the content of consciousness comes about your mostly focused on just the mechanism by which the different information streams are together.
38:59
Will I mean in some sense I would say that we care more about the than many other theories because for us it's very important that this content is of the dominated and always modulated by prior experience, right? Which is a claim that other theories do not make for example, with the global workspace theory, I mean, you could have a basically processing without any prior knowledge at all.
39:30
Basically doesn't say anything about that. You have to have prior knowledge in the world. So, in some sense, Paul, I would say that we care more so business, and I think maybe a little way to go with you first. Since you thought about this problem, pretty deeply. If you had a common request summer, if you study on I already enjoyed, just that the summary I
39:58
A something like,
40:04
And so now I guess about
40:14
Coating. The idea that our conscious content is brain's best. Guess said, joint content of top down. Predictions about the causes current sensory input. And so there's a lot of work in predicted, coding processing, trying to flush out what the actual neural circuitry underlying that it might be. There are things like canonical circuits were pretty coding to another bus stops.
40:47
To interesting.
40:57
For instance, make some specific predictions about exactly how that can help prior expectation shape, conscious content and also why. For instance they printing prison is not a theory of consciousness or something. At least for me like banging on about that point, it's a journey of how the brain does that and it's useful to framing questions about consciousness and most of the time is used as praying questions about conscious content.
41:26
What we've deceived whether we receive it or whether it's relation to the sensory stimulus is and it's actually very not about it in terms of global changes and conscious level important anesthesia to sleep and so on. But I think your work provides a really nice advantage to do that.
41:44
But you can say, okay exactly what? This engaged, lots of consciousness That was the first thing. And the second thing I think I just wanted to push you a bit more because it's a consequence of you ideas being compatible with basically every other theory provocative there. But if you if you'll series compatible with every other theory of consciousness it what besides giving us an additional hints about.
42:12
Yeah. Implementation. Is it really a serious? This area. For instance how many step we see. But it's not really theory of consciousness. Thanks any land of course. Thank you for being here. And really listen, great sign of your work. It starts with the last question. So I mean indeed, I myself I'm relatively humble.
42:37
So when we were writing the paper, I mean, I didn't say that it's a theory. I talked about the we should mechanism and I thought this is compatible with all of them. Maybe it's just, we should say that it's a mechanism, right? But then my supervisor method was saying, no, you have to, you have to put your head out and say that it's a theory.
43:02
So he pushed the push test to really have this put in. And I I'm not really confident until today in that because I really also myself think the two really need another theory of consciousness, right? The to be having enough potential say that this is our mechanism anyway, that paper turned out this way, let's see how it how it goes.
43:26
But I'm just saying that I myself have this tops, whether it's really worth pulling bacteria of consciousness, but let's see how it goes, right? It doesn't the world of conscious research that every proposed aspect is presented. As a master theory of consciousness, disorder for that. I mean, I feel bad that level point out and some of the outstanding questions, it is.
43:59
Unlike some other theory. That it is we've taken as a theory of consciousness, it is at least testable in the sense that you could look at some conditions like as I think as you mentioned, if you're dreaming. If if for instance that the dreaming, the dream state you find this disruption of dendritic integration yet we're still having conscious experiences.
44:20
That would presumably that would refute the theory and it's always nice to have a theory this refusal. So I think there are it's good. That there is testable predictions, but we have all these things in terms of these adversarial collaborations, like trying to find predictions that would disambiguate between, let's say global workspace, theory and integrated information theory, and it's kind of difficult for me anyway, to think of what experiment with this ambiguate them.
44:48
And of course, my preview response would be. Well, of course, it is because their compatible and it always level workspace was compatible with IIT, as well. Yeah, but some people some some people have even pointed out that we could integrate them. These two theories and have a master theory or something like that.
45:08
However, I think thanks Anil for also pointing out here because the other main point or the third main point, I tried to make ease exactly that. We tried to be very subtle not to kind of make anyone angry, but the point they are making is that it's very hard to test global nerve workspace, theory.
45:32
I mean, of course you can do an experiment that is compatible with it, but it's very hard. You the main claims because it's so one specific. And as a needle has shown in his works, it's impossible to rescue the IIT or integrated information theory because specifically cannot even compute it for systems like the brain.
45:54
So don't only can always say, hey, okay, you kind of have the story example but you know, we have these like that. It is what it is. And for the brain, it my theorist still holds so you cannot do really much about it, but our theory is very different in that sense.
46:11
And that's why I think that was one of the main points of methyl that. Now, currently, today people can actually go out and test these ideas because of all the amazing work that is done in mouse neuroscience. You can actually go and do the next experiment which is about deep sleep.
46:34
You should so that in deep sleep, these neurons are also decoupled as in anesthesia. That's a key prediction of the theory, if it means that the theory fails, but this is an experiment, that can be done. Makes not an easy experiment. It will take several years to do it, but basically, this is a hope minute that this contest is.
46:55
And he also pointed out, that you can be contested the effect of dreaming. Well, that's harder in mice, but he could, at least look what happens in Ramsey. That's an experiment. That's even harder to do. But we proposed, basically, during REM sleep, this neurons are not incumbent, right? And I mean, I don't go into many videos, but the point is that people in your science labs that have mouse my single lab, they can go and check different steps.
47:25
Taken for example, check what other neurons that control this company, what are the specific molecular mechanisms? What are the specific circuit mechanisms that control this company between these circuits? So for me, this theory stands out from this others because it can be tested right here. Right now with tools, we have available today, go ahead.
47:50
Okay, so to add one more to that. First question, I was just wondering if if it would be a fair characterization to say that the processes of dendritic integration that you talk about are necessary for conscious states but not sufficient for conscious states. Yeah, I mean, this is the question, we kind of deliberately avoid in the in the in the paper.
48:17
And I think we had some more discussion on Twitter with your Shabbat also also said, like look you mean you could have also consoles. Let's say in instance, bring some mother organisms, that do not have cortex or layer 5 parameter cells at all. So what do you say? And my clay.
48:35
My point was that look for gorgeous missions. It's really important to figure out one mechanism, one mechanism that these necessary, and if you have bigger data out that, you'll be a great lead forward. So I'm not training at the ending that this is a sufficient mechanism to claiming that this is a one necessary mechanism in our brains in range.
49:05
With the event is interesting is of course when a friend subscription Coke started the great thought of they propose a search for the NCC's, the neural corals of consciousness, which suggested that there might be special neurons or maybe neurons that are active, in a special way of special time that would be associated with consciousness.
49:23
But with this bottle, not actually kick or not behavior, but rather how those neurons are highlighted information, but it doesn't actually fit the NCC.
49:42
That's funny more interesting because France is free with his great vision. He actually together with his self-contained, have some paper, and some chapters, whether right stuff like most likely, these will be the deep layer time, perimeter and neurons projecting outside of the cortex and they have a sentence, like, it would be marvelous if that.
50:07
And now the outing of position to say that it is. I hope this is that they wrote in 1992 and in our chapter in 1994, this has married actually could be like that. And this is crazy of course that they didn't speculate about they because then rights. But they do speculate about this particular same types that are centered for our theory.
50:31
Then there five room that says, projecting the salam. Also down there and supporting the structures here, fulfilling their prophecy, some sense. It's some sense of let me also add here. The funny thing I have we haven't had chance to discuss it with Christ of goal, but in the 2016 nature,
50:55
The right that most likely the seller, the cells that are important for consciousness are. Not the layer 5 cells because the money together. Now, they don't like this idea of broadcasting outside the cortex so much so hope has reversed his position. Is now saying that layer 2 3 sales of the superficial layer cells are important for watches but ironically enough we do think that we kind of see strong evidence for their original idea.
51:30
Fortunate to be joined by Kevin O'Regan. Who was our guest last week and who has for 20 years been putting forth a sensory motor and tendency a theory of consciousness really focused on how the and, you know, as it happens had built on that theory and to propose a way that neural predicted coding, could possibly be a computational mechanism and that might conform to this sensor motor introducing model.
51:59
So I wanted to invite Kevin to make a comment the Kevin you're your thoughts, you know. Thank you very much for.
52:15
Rather, it's if you look out cognitive pro mach
52:27
Put interaction of top down with bottom up. Information is a channel as that's my first brother and then a more specific.
52:46
Bring coupling between.
53:00
Yeah, thank you very much. Of course, Kevin. And thank you for the nice clubhouse. Also, last week, I mean, I enjoyed also your clubhouse and all the papers and books you have written. So thank you here and I'll see this questions. So indeed, I do think that you principally in principle, we would have also tried to make the claim that this is our very general mechanism.
53:27
Underlying cognition. However, now the interesting part is that it's directly related to your second person else because we do think that processing that happens within the cortex that stays within the corporates. For example, that mainly requires the processing of the superficial layers layer. 23, This can happen. This can happen even when the layer 5 parameter cells are decoupling and this is for the yes, you see.
54:09
I mean you could say that this is why does it have to be so specific to her about? This is it's stupid. Why why do we make it so specific but exactly it, cause we can we can make a new scientifically, very precise hypothesis which can be wrong but we did do that.
54:28
Then play a two, three processing, we can continue. So in fact, a lot of cognition that relies on on feet forward processing can happen because you do not need necessarily to project out of the cortex. You do not need to protect when you're doing some computation the context and I think a primary example would be something like object recognition.
54:57
So I would not be surprised that if we like with some agents. We the five early the neurons for example, let's say now in the monkey and we now show images of like it's done today. With this massive data sets that we would still see in the higher order, visual cortex selective responses different classes.
55:29
So that was now back to the first person. Also, the reason why we think that this is not simple that it is volunteerness. And, of course, again I acknowledge that maybe it's stupid. Maybe we may type of decision but these two precise we could have made a more difficult just said that this is reliable for cognition etc.
55:55
But here we won the really contrast. For example, the global neural workspace, period make a hypothesis that is specific enough that it kind of tickles the neuroscientists who can actually go ahead and test it and show that on otherwise methological they were wrong. That their hypothesis is not true because actually layer two three cells are relevant for consciousness, etc.
56:22
I mean it's super happy. So, I think our hypothesis is very specific, maybe should not have been so specific, but we wanted to contrast ourselves and show that, you know, today, you can make this very specific claim about specific neurons. Doing specific competitions and other labs. Can go ahead and just test it.
56:49
Regarding regarding this question of what types of processing would be possible when this integration is not happening. I'm imagining that Simon Thorpe would probably say that basic object recognition could happen for a pathway only. So perhaps that might be an example but maybe that would be object recognition to drive action without any awareness of the object.
57:09
If you want to make the argument that, that awareness required that top down pathway. No, I mean, I think that most people agree that you can have, if, unless you show some really new objects, you can have unconscious responses as collective, unconscious responses, to various object classes so that fit over processing.
57:31
As you see. Also in deep neural networks can happen on consciously, and mainly reliance on this processing in superficial cortical layers. And according to our bipolar disease is our conscious cognition. And I guess Kevin raises an interesting point about the relationship between consciousness and cognition, one view, I guess could be that cognition, is something that happens underneath consciousness, that just the ability to sort of plan action and execute behavior is a form of cognition and consciousness, some sort of extra sauce layered on top that can happen or not happen.
58:09
Another view I guess might reverse the water and say that consciousness is the a foundation for awareness and for integrating information in this sort of global workspace theory sense and the cognition is a special type of activity on top of that for doing procedural, systematic action, and rational thought and Kevin, I don't know how you think of the relationship between cognition and consciousness, or any other curious on your views, and also young.
58:34
Yeah. I mean, if I go first and I mean, this is also related to the question about the compatibility of coincidence, right? And that there have been now, really kind of important arguments from the learning from Christophe. And also from Anil saying that he's different from cognition, it is different from intelligence and I tend to agree with these views or that we can see them as independent and moreover we can already propose some independent neural mechanisms the two interact and that's fine.
59:18
That's the good thing that they do interact as to layer two, three neurons and they find neurons but fundamentally that they are different and when you start the one, you are not necessarily studying the other trouble with that. A few though is that if, if you want to claim that consciousness is something over and above just cognition, then you have to really define what aspect this is.
59:48
I mean, how would you test? It seems very hard to test it unless you can somehow say, well, what exactly are you looking for? Because most measures are called so proxies for almost measures of consciousness, a measured using cognition reports reports. So how can you ever prove that consciousness is something over and above just these simple reports or ability to report?
01:00:13
Yeah, this is one of the fundamental problems of consciousness research. And this experience are really new paper and let's see how that goes and how people feel about it. But the paper people know me for in consciousness, research is a paper saying that it cannot understand the neural basis of consciousness by doing these kinds of cognitive tasks.
01:00:41
Because it will always always confound the prerequisites and the consequences of consciousness, which is basically the same thing that when you have reports or you could try it with eye movements, you could write different things. Then you will have also processes that kind of confound search for the newer correlates of consciousness.
01:01:04
And so it's a fundamental problem. I think I hope that there are many people who are actually looking at right to find out new, clever ways from dissociate getting. This is not an easy task but I mean we will do it eventually. But for now one of you is that what?
01:01:21
For example is that they basically they define or interesting as integrated information and they show that look, you can have this measure in dependent of cognition, you can have the system that is good in cognition has low for, I etc. So that's one way. I mean I'm not necessarily agreeing with them.
01:01:46
I'm just saying that this is one way of doing that, that you basically do it kind of in some information theory of math terms, right? And other way how how we do it that we try to propose that there are specific neural mechanisms and we try to take it in the brain with on the level of neurons turgles and molecular mechanisms, but we will need it.
01:02:13
And we will need to rely on new tasks that kind of better differentiate between these two, and this is a hard purpose. But if you also be a very fun task, because it's a real challenge, that will propel the field forward a lot, I think. Yeah, you're exactly right to point out.
01:02:32
I think January of papers on prerequisites and consequences. Very influential. And but if there's been anything, actually, a lot of quite in order to work, trying to get around that, as far as we can, it's not easy. But they're always now. No report paradigms that tried to distinguish between the correlates that underlying reportability as compared to the true, as you record it.
01:02:56
The true NCC. I mean, these are not guaranteed to work, but I think that there are useful approaches there that go, some way to solving this this problem. But yeah, I think this distinction between consciousness cognition is, so it's so difficult and it's kind of, I, I think so much.
01:03:13
I do think there are different things that they find differently. Cognition is all about function mapping of into output computation of some sort or other consciousness is fundamentally about phenomenology. And so in the sense it's really a difference of emphasis when you ask questions and and do experiments and this is where, for instance.
01:03:32
Yeah, I've been very cabins work too back from 20 years ago. It's famous paper with other night that the sensory motor considency theory because it really gets out nominology and trying to explain why particular experience to have the phenomenal character that they have. And if you try and understand the mechanisms that that account for that phenomenal character, then you're asking questions that are about consciousness primer about, you know, what can people do with certain input information so on?
01:04:02
Can they do arithmetic unconsciously or not? Then that's, that's a question about cognition rather than phenomenology. I mean, in practice, there's a lot of bounds to be a lot of overlapping mechanisms, so I'm not entirely comfortable with this idea of particular order, but I do think it's important to recognize that that picking out fundamentally different properties assistance.
01:04:28
So we could as evidence notifications we could have systems computers that we could all probably come to concept some consensus that they're implementing some form of cognition. But without any phenomenology one, I think that's one. Part the public discourse on this, where it gets a little bit. I have a few issues with which is this assumption that as artificial intelligence or artificial cognition, if you like guess increasingly sophisticated, then ask come on and there's artificial.
01:05:01
Consciousness is well it's actually inflammation of phenomenology and intelligence. I wanted to return just for a moment to the topic of the sensory motor view on consciousness and its relationship to the work that you're doing on context integration beyond just because we have the opportunity to have both the Kevin and Neil here, who've thought about the sensory motor a version and ideal who's also tried to connect that to some of the neuroscience.
01:05:23
So I'm guessing that Kevin would take the view that consciousness or at least contrast perception isn't so much as something that's happening inside the brain. But rather a circuit with the environment that by engaging in trying to seek out answers and the environment providing it through sensory input, that, that circuit is create the experience of conscious perception.
01:05:45
Whereas in your dendritic integration view, I think you would say that. It's just really the combination of the fee, forward pathway with the feedback pathway that applying the context. Has for input is, what is producing conscious experience? I don't know if he would say that, but it's sort of implied by your paper.
01:06:03
Any thoughts on that or a needle to someone who probably understands both these views have curious? Thanks, Paul. I mean, that's a really interesting question and obviously, we didn't really think about that. But I mean, thanks to this clubhouse. Now I'm seeing could also be saying that look, when a theory is mainly about the cortex and how things are computed, when during the cortex later are integrated information of consciousness or programmer workspace to reduce.
01:06:34
It's very kind of upside to what became this proposing in the sensory theory. However, you know, a theory, they import and think about near five permitted cells is that they are the cells that project out of the cortex and that project to the motor system. Also they project to cerebral nuclei and many cases they can control movement.
01:06:59
So in that sense, I feel that there is a actually a strong connection between our theory and what can be had been proposing because exactly how a theory inherently died. Also to these sensory motor loops because this cell 95 neurons are the ones that control action. They are the ones that control eye movement.
01:07:26
They are the ones that control our, our different movements. They are there neurons that couple us to the environment. So, there is this coupling between the different compartments of individing this neurons. And the cabin has done it. Have been stressing the conflict to the all of the between the environment and the brain but we are.
01:07:49
But I'm saying now is that look of course. These neurons are involved directly involved in the motor aspects. Then there is this coupling between this specific biophysical mechanism. And I,
01:08:11
Okay, I'm with young Arrow, young is joining us for a study great, to have you on our neuroscience, AI and consciousness conversation series, what got my attention is that you have a paper titled cellular mechanisms of consciousness processing, and you propose, a normal mechanism of consciousness and that paper was suggested to me by both eligrates and Billy George.
01:08:32
So what's interested chat with you about it. And we've been having ongoing conversations about consciousness here on this forum. So, glad to have you here. Thank you very much for the invitation. It's great to be here an owner. So, one of the things I want to start with, is just to find out a little bit about what motivated your original interests in this problem.
