b0232y ctpr
(audio transcirption needs correction)
Clubhouse Dendrite Potassium Calcium
00:00
Send out roots, these kind of basal dendrites and then they have this big trunk, a shoots up. The, you know, the pot does tell bodies are in layer five of the cortex, and then they shoot the trunk up. And then there's just big, arborization of dendrites, and layer one.
00:18
And the paper we were talking about in Paul's room, they they were talking about it in terms of two compartments, which would just be that, that big arborization layer one versus stomatic compartment. And there's these interesting things that happen when the two compartments interact. You can get these calciums and you get the celibacy first, you say, calcium, you get calcium.
00:51
Well, that's what they were talking about, then that what they were doing was reading out that first three, that's how they were. So they use anesthetics and then they measured the change in verse probability with that mechanism in mind. So it's added to me during that recording, that the anesthesia was somehow inhibiting the action potential from happening and it but the actual potential was in being inhibited because the anesthesia was specifically acting on on creating an inhibition between the, the Soma and the and the other section.
01:30
I guess that would of the neuron, I guess at. I don't know. Are we talking about like, the dendritic arbor the dendritic arbor. So, so if you, if you so they're saying you put on it, anesthesia and then those compartments are decoupled. In other words, they, they can't interact with each other.
01:52
So then you you don't get that first thing effect that you would normally get, what do they mean by a couple? Are they do? They mean that they're oscillating together at the same frequency or is that means the synapses that the activity in the dendrite is enough to cause the solema to burst on and it can go the other way.
02:17
If there's some so that it as a summer is a summer versus the same as the beginning of an action potential or no. So, yeah, you can have single spikes, right? So let's just study them in potassium out and then you can get. And, and, and there's coating for spike rate.
02:39
And with single spikes, you can even code with timing. But then there's it's a very different type of behavior. Where the cell bursts very rapidly in a, you know, very small window of time. They're starting to call that first. They're sodium. And there's also the chloride actually. Yeah. All right, is a pretty small part of the, you know, the classic, hunchkin and hoxley style action potential.
03:10
They it usually plays in on, like after the action potential or where exactly the threshold ends up being for firing but it's the big snap. The big spike is sodium in desensitis the, the sodium channels desensitized and then you have this slower on set of potassium, pushing out which shuts down the the spike.
03:35
That's like the main component. Okay? So a big question, I want to ask you was, how does the let's say, let's say that you, you show some what you show. So let's say that we could, we could watch the activity of of a dendrite, you know, with the sensor that just doesn't exist yet.
03:57
Right, let's say we could walk really watch the dendrite while we showed somebody like one picture. And then we showed someone another picture and that the point of this is that the dendrite is supposed to recognize a part of this picture. That's what that's that's the point of the six parameters is.
04:14
We're gonna put two pictures and there's in the dendrites gonna recognize the pattern from this picture, and then it's going to that's going to potentially result in the like a change in the potassium. It's gonna result in. It's what I'm thinking is it's gonna change the, it's gonna change the potassium and the the potassium is going to change the shape of the action potential and the shape of the action potential is going to change the the total quantity of neurotransmitters that that fled the the exit terminal in multi in terms of multiples.
05:01
In terms of microtubules acts and so that's what I'm like, that's what I'm driving at like. Well how how is the dendritic recognizing a pattern that's going to change the amount of potassium because that because I I think and I've talked to other people, I think that there's enough.
05:23
There's research also that says, you know, this is what the tabs there is, there is some sort of like what it's going to cause the change in the shape of the action. Potential may come down to how long the the dirt, the two, the duration of the action potential, like when it's when it's closed and if there's more, if there's more potassium concentration, then the dendrite might close at a different time interval.
05:54
And that's going to change the amplitude or frequency of the of the action potential. So that's, that's an idea. I don't know what you think about. Yeah. So I like if you change the rest, like, let's say, you, you're injecting a current. And so one, one thing I meant to say earlier that my clarify some things, the some of the stuff I've been saying applies to really large cells, right?
06:24
So, if you have like a smaller, primal neuron, or an inner neuron, you don't have this distance. Dependent compartmentalization that happens. It's a different type compartmentalization. Yeah, you were talking about what paramedical cells are what? Yeah, exactly, six layers cells. Yeah, I was whatever that's what they were talking about in the paper to.
06:46
Yes. Right. The apical apical and basal compartments. And so in a smaller cell than with when there's so much fires, the back propagating to all the synapses. So that's, you know. So it depends, it's very self-typed dependent but to what you're saying. So let's just talk about a smaller cell like that.
07:10
Let's say you're applying current on synapses in a and the branches then you're certainly gonna change with the resting during the during that stimulus that you're gonna temporarily change. The resting voltage for the soma and changing natural to chasm consequences for, you know, set points for the channels that are involved.
07:36
Also when those those channels are going to become desensitized, so sure you could definitely end up controlling the shape or even like the timing of when the spiking happens with with synaptic inputs. I think that's what you're getting at. Yeah, I'm wondering how the affecting sodium. You could be affecting potassium, like you were saying.
08:05
Yeah. But more specifically, get affected. And then the potassium for plasticity is calcium. And you certainly could be modifying the responsive calcium channels as well. And yes, so the cat. That's right. Okay. They're part of the hypothesis that I'm working on but specifically potassium like that. Like, could you say more about how like theorized more?
08:28
What like, like what? What's known in terms of like, how a dendrite might how the so identified might receive a unique number of of its and unique pattern of its. In its inputs, may have been triggered by by other cells and so Denver has a unique pattern, each time.
08:59
And somehow those synapses on each of the branches of the dendrite are sending us. You know, a summary of what they're whatever they're collecting. They're sending a summary whatever they're collecting that represents part of that pattern and it's resulting. It it is perhaps being transformed or resulting in some sort of change to the amount of sodium.
09:29
Some sort of changes the amount of potassium and and down the road, you know, changes. You know, what to the to what the calcium receptors are, or doing, or how much, you know, with the calcium receptors are I'm, actually, I'm actually not sure what what changes gonna it's gonna make to the calcium receptors.
09:51
Exactly. Because it doesn't. This is a little bit of the gray area for me, like, well, where how a synapse is going to increase or decrease? The potassium. Delta that potassium. I'm not sure what to the. Yeah will change the potential and the potential can affect the you know, the voltage it's going to put the the channels that a different set point.
10:27
So I would think about it in terms of the permutability to different ions is going to change. So the you know, the conductance for each of these ions it's so the current itself isn't, you know, changing the, it's that that change in voltage is going to change your permeability to different types of ions.
10:52
I think that's what you're getting at. There's this paper, I should show you. It's it was done in the hippocampus and I I basically am hypothesizing that this mechanism is happening in the cortex, but nobody's nailed that yet. But it they the paper outlines what they call behavioral time synaptic plasticity and it's in the hippocampus and they're what they show is.
11:21
As the mouse is running along a track depending on how fast that mouse is running along the track more and more of the place field code get will converge on to single cells and in other words, the so as these inputs are targeting different parts of the tree, this should all this plateau potential.
11:49
We were talking about is long enough to allow the dendrite to integrate across a sequence pattern of. So it's a pattern over time on the dendritic tree that the neuron is able to learn in one shot so that all it means is one plateau potential and it can learn a place field.
12:07
Oh, that makes sense. Does it make total sense? Yes. Yeah. Calcium potential last for second. So you have time to integrate a pattern in time. Wow, that's profound that. That's a what's called? I'm imagining the dendrite as a as a and I was the word tensor like when you have it when you have like a matrix times.
12:40
A matrix, you know, and you have like nine matrixes in there. All three dimensional and they're all like like it's like one cube in each cube has nine more matrices and inside. Yeah, each section of the cube anyway. And I'm thinking about the how that implication of that in protection because that's that coupling mechanism and that's not something you can just abstract away.
13:10
Why putting more neurons in a network? You need. I'm mechanism that's coupling compartments and that's why I think about computer neurons is computers rather than you know, single bits being flipped.
13:31

Audio
