b0234y ctpr
(audio transcription needs corrections to be made)
Waves Brains Delta
00:00
Care too much about being, right? You might fail to dream. That's why.
00:13
It was always inevitable that someone would understand would look at neuroscience and deep learning and come away with of at a later time in the timeline of humanity and come away with different ideas based upon their unique life experiences, that would add insights and enable us to basically create next generation neural networking, this wasn't inevitability.
00:43
Like eventually someone would put these perspectives together which is part of why I'm releasing this book. As it's inevitable that humanity would figure this out anyways, but it's also sort of like it point to put this in a situation where you look at, you know, like what yearly coon has his advocacy for open source in for open sourcing AI.
01:09
He's even like really gotten on deep mindscase about, you know, the time the times when which they they announced the results of a study but didn't immediately release their code and open source way. They like, they had really great code that they were not sharing for a while and but you know, thankfully, you know, I think that, you know, the open source.
01:38

02:08
So I have this idea about how to program a conscious robot. And I, the thing is this is this is, it's, it's like it's potentially dangerous technology and releasing. It is like giving everything the chance to build their own nuclear weapon, that could take over the earth. But I, I am following in the footsteps of people, likely coon, I think in, in terms of, in terms of being a continuing to be a believer in the value of of open source, even when it comes to potentially dangerous technology, because even without my contribution here, deep learning by itself, is potentially more dangerous than nuclear weapons.
03:02
You know, just by like, it is possible to, to basically multiple. It's like, it's like multiplying, you're thinking power. Like, imagine if you could multiply your thinking power, that's the kind of thing. Like, if you could, if you have artificial persons or working on behalf of your country, let's say you have like a virtual, let's say that your government has like a virtual army of people who are working on behalf of your government but they're all, they're all like human beings in in one sense in the sense of being self-aware.
03:39
They're all like people in the sense that they can talk, they will be able to talk to us. They'll be able to understand us, we'll be able to understand them. These are artificially intelligent people, the artificial people. Um they we'll be able to interface with with us if we if we allow it, if we're comfortable with it, we can connect our brains and interface with them.
04:08
But what what gives us sort of like would gives each person each individual. Their own separate agency is that is the is first of all, the the structure, the modularity of like, you know, every every brain is its own module, right? And a brain has modules inside it. It's like a fractal of modules.
04:35
And so, so in a sense, you know, our thinking is distributed like we think of like, you know, the octopus. You could think of the octopus. It has distributed brains in all of its it's limbs and this octopus is going to. What's the word? It's, it's like each of the brains is sort of independent but also interdependent, right?
05:08

05:30
And it's sort of like the there like that. See, the reason why, the reason why I created that analogy is like, okay well wait a second. If octopus is actually many different animals connected into one flesh, then perhaps it's possible to imagine that you could have a distributed. You could have multiple animals functioning as one being because they have learned to modularize but continue to have communication.
06:11
And so, what I'm saying, what I'm talking about right now is the is the EEG think the EG frequency range synchronization between two speakers when two human beings get together and talk? There is a sort of synchronization in their tonic oscillation, which is in the EEG. Frequency spectrum. So you can see that they are synchronizing while they are communicating.
06:41
And this this sort of like suggests that that that it's not it's not simply. It's not like it's it's not like you're going to like when you are having a conversation with another person and you are on there. Wavelength there they shift to your your wavelength like when two people are talking they get they talk because they are linked.
07:06
They're able to link onto the same wavelength they're able to spill onto the same wavelength, that's why they're talking right. And,
07:21
And and that's what you that's what you can see in some of the medical imaging where you study, two different study human beings, brain. Multiple the brainwaves of multiple EG, participants and different scenarios some in which there are not talking to anyone else. And then, you know, you measure them when they're talking to people.
07:43
And so, you know, I I don't know what, what? I don't know the whole body of study out there on this topic, but I think that I would love to see a study where they had one person's brainwaves were in trained with music, without even visual to reach like a very alpha state.
08:04
Okay, and I guess I need to charge this. And so we have another situation where someone else is trained to be like have a lot more theater and Delta. They're entrained with with binaural beats or isochronic beats and light and sound patterns to be in any may possibly also drugs to be and I'd like a delta theta brainwave state.
08:36
They might feel very sleepy. Maybe can give them small quality feel more sleepy. It's late at night but the other person like you want to have one person is like, a lot of alpha ways. Maybe maybe some betaways you, give them a cup of coffee and have have them you know, sit into really brightly lit room.
08:57
So all of their melatonin is inhibited and they feel very bright and very alert. Okay. And so what we're going with this is like, okay. So what you do is you have if you bring in a number of subjects like three subjects, okay? Now each of them, each of the subjects is prepped because they're also in trained and either like there's maybe there's six subjects and the first three are going to be trained and trained in a delta waves before they come in.
09:32
And the second three are going to be entrained in alpha waves before they come in, okay, but so what happens is each each person meets up with one of the, I think I need to divide a differently. Okay, let's have six people total. Okay. And half of the people will train without the waves.
09:54
And half of the people will train with delta waves and we'll pair the alpha and delta wave when when out will pair one of the alpha waves with one of the delta waves and then we'll pair one of the alpha waves between the alpha waves and we'll pair one of the delta waves one, delta waves and we want to what we want to watch like but we'll pair each person with each person.
10:17
I think. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I think so because the idea is and we'll do it in such a way that they're oscillating like from one from, from a person that has an alpha way of to a person, has a dealt with who person has enough way to person's delta wave, like they're gonna psycho through like so you have six people.
10:35
That means they have five people they can match with and so they're gonna so we're gonna arrange it so that they they keep switching from from either the people who are trained with delta or people trained with alpha. Okay. But the idea is to watch and see. Okay, well what if their brains are gonna synchronize?
10:54
Are they gonna is, is the person with Delta gonna pull the person without foot down, or is the person without going to pull the person with Delta up? Or are they gonna meet in the middle? Is there are we going to see like, like a lot more theta and beta frequencies when you combine some people who've been trained with alpha and delta.
11:14
We see a lot more frequencies in the middle will, will the equilibrium? Does it equilibrium actually have a median, like it? Like does it, does it actually calculate a median and then distribute the median to both brains because that, that is fascinating, right? Because it has to somehow somehow in order to synchronize, right?
11:34
The, the brain has to has to tune into a frequency pattern and then sort of copy it. But if you have two brains and they can each tune into a frequency pattern and you start them on dramatically different frequency patterns, then how do the two brains come to sync?
11:54
Will they sync up in Delta? Will they sync up an alpha? Or will they sync up in theta or or or beta? And you do this with like every pairing? So you can multiply this experiment. Like the more people the better like we had 10 people and they were all to take turns then then that would reveal that that might help reveal what we need to see.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio