b0230y ctpr
(auto audio transcription needs corrections)
Dendrite Wave Pattern
00:00
Just just one neuron is enough to recognize the pattern and
00:15
Fire off of response that recognizes that pattern. But it's because the other neurons are listening taking a turn to actually was
00:37
That finding the binding of information happens.
00:48
Larger numbers, listen to small, listen to the activity of smaller. Now, smaller numbers and elements.
01:02
So there's the action potential, right? Dinner's actually actress was a firing event but then okay. But then there's like like how long is the ask potential for the last?
01:36
So, that's so. So,
01:45
The the length of the action potential encode, some dimension information, doesn't precisely matter what it just encodes, some dimension of information. That is a dealt as a change in Delta, and
02:13
Between between one state and another er between one object at another object in category theory.
02:32
The length of action, the length of the time of action potential. Is going to is going to be.
02:49
The represent to the delta or scale of what what they contract is passing on, or
03:14
That is manifested in terms of like it's either going to. It's either going to have a faster frequency and there's with a smaller scale or it's going to have in slower frequency with a broader impact. And so because there's two possible situations, the firing speed of, the neuron could be excited.
04:04
Work could be slowed down based upon the activity of the dendrite.
04:14
The summation of the dendrite could result in a more excited action protector or it could be Eric had result analysis of action control. But what's going to happen is that the cells that are less excited are going to far more recently, In other words, cells cells will oscillate towards something that's in between depressed.
04:54
It's in between excited. So they're looking for a frequency that's going to allow just going to allow frequency, it's going to allow it to be on the edge of either excitation or in addition
05:24
Okay, so there's this, there's just transmission of patterns out of either. They're getting faster and more specific or if they're getting slower and more vic, when patterns in your brain are getting faster more specific. That's when novel data is being collected, when the patterns in your brain are getting slower and more vague, that's when novel stuff is not happening.
06:07
And so you're bored or you're excited or you're born excitement or some language and eventually signature. Let's see. There is like this sort of. So going back to anesthesia being disrupting the action and that we're talking encoders inside three that that's interesting because like, okay, so it's interesting because the dendrites the apical and so compartments have to come together to to result in the synaptic.
07:08
Explosion are the essay the that so much so much exposure they have to work together and that's that process is being inhabited. Okay. But what's being inhibited? This is is not the is not necessarily the collection of data but the
07:43
The transmission of data, right? So it's like the collection of data is to enter. It input, assistance rampart, what comes to the entry, but it's like you recite without the action. Potentials. And the in the parameter cells, there's no sound and without the drumming there's no consciousness.
08:31
It's like, it's like, it's like here. It's a that's like your that's like listening and there's no sound coming. You could be, you could you could technically
08:50
You could say that. Okay. So if the dendrite is a neural network that it's never going to be conscious, right?
09:07
Is never gonna be conscious, but known network is never gonna conscious. Indentures are never going to be conscious If you just emulated them in a computer you can make them fire correctly. They're never going to be concert with caught. What makes them conscious okay? Is the fact.
09:33
That they are talk.
09:41
That they have our voice that they are translating. Because the transmission where the talking is this partner,
10:02
This. So, speaking as partner of listening and without the speaking there be no listening, that's something is that they transmission.
10:20
If you send out a signal and there's no one to hear it,
10:31
So it's very much that 10 tracks are listening, spikes The interest, your listening spikes. Then rights are, but the spikes. Are creating sensory.
11:07
Anything, what does it have to be since reformation? No, I guess not. Yes, no, yes. Because see that we can see what the dendrite is to denture is never going to be conscious though.
11:27
So, is that simply decoding the signal?
11:35
It's encoding a signal, it's encoding of beads. So I want to add something here. I want to say that part of the inspiration for
11:59
Differential for what I call the
12:15
The it's it's it's really the asatory AP. Differential are silatory aspiratory. Oscillatory, the oscillatory differential or the OSCDIF? Yeah. It's the a differential is comes from a Eastern. Mysticism idea, the the differential idea comes from Eastern Mississippi. It's mystery. Missed the system mysticism. There you go. It is.
13:17
The idea that there is the mind emerging from the ground of being idea, that there is a base level of awareness from which the mind writers. Okay, so what I'm saying is like somewhere. 

 That a spike to a dendrite is like a sound words, like a tone parasite.
14:06
It's a pattern of some kind, right? Part of it or part works part of the larger pattern or it's part of a sequence of the patterns or it's a pattern that is part of a sequence of
14:30
Yeah, I mean it's spinning a little bit but it is a
14:38
To attack right? As sequence of spikes, there's a sequence of sounds in the sense that a sound, is a sequence of frequencies or a word. Like, as I'm speaking right now, you're listening to these words, each each piece of the pronunciation that I am making.
15:16
Something that is.
15:27
For pattern that's changing in each moment in each frame. If this was a video or an audio or this is an audio recording but like each second of the audio recording or each second of the video is going to contain a different piece of sound. That is a phase pattern, FA is pattern, that's changing over time.
15:57
And in the brain, it's you can have phase patterns that are changing over time and changing over topology because you because the spatial patterns are basically like top a lot of, it's like a topological detection or volumetric detection into and either either one, sometimes it could be even. Yeah, it could be either, it could be fluid detection.
16:33
Fluid geometry.
16:38
Could be a gas detection.
16:45
Gas challenge.
16:51
You know? Or it could be a heat detection. Heat waves. Heat geometry. Smell geometry, taste and feel geometry. All of these different sensory modalities there you can become aware of and there are different to you, but they're also different to one another. That's what, so they have to be different from one another in order for you to notice difference between them and so they're going to be affecting the brain and a broad Friday of waves, in terms of, you know, the
17:50
There and there with the the phase at each stage of the temporal sequence. And he particularly special distribution that comes with each other. The spatial, the spatial distribution of spaces at each stage of temporal sequence.
18:36
So so it seems. So what I'm getting at is that we've got our dendrites are neural. Networking computers neurons are neural networking computers but they're producing and audio outputs or a pattern output. That is a I guess it is an analogous household but a digital input. It's like an analog output at a different cut.
19:13
Yeah, it's kind of. Yeah. So, I mean, I guess it's some
19:19
It's just sweet has there's discrete signals. So it's it's attack. Is there's just be six. So it's it's kind of like the
19:48
The outputs have bearing deltas. They're not binary outputs. They've deltas have very countless and they're not pioneer. They are discrete. But they have specific counts, which you also have to have a specific pattern. This that gets formulated and becomes virtual and you need to have a specific pattern that can move and carry information and as we're so it's on waves coming to the picture.
20:30
So what we're saying is is and bit of sound or phase is going to actually be awake. If away our wave wave and assault on way, it's going to be a very stable wave pack very specific weight pattern, right?
21:09
So a wave pattern that's interesting because or talk, we've been talking about the transmission near our transmitters, the remotable resource, right? But I may be looking at it wrong, because if you think about the ocean, there's there's a there's water going. Any other channels?
21:54
By.
21:59
Be.
22:09
But that did a lot of waves happen. And so it is actually like neurotransmitters are sort of like
22:30
They just the same way that my, the water molecules can serve to transmit ways ways. So awesome. Neurotransmitter heard transmit. So, in some ways or information carrying ways, And so the consciousness and not in this alternative, right? But here you have a bunch of salt and wigs and they are their oscillations.
23:25
There, the dendrites, which are non-conscious detectors or computers are protecting the weds, creating new ones. So there's this sort of tracking have to development of changing wave patterns by the thin treads, that's resulting, in the production of wave, patterns by the dent rights that are affecting the, the distribution of neurotransmitters.
24:01
And it makes it more transmatched and the time of neurotransmitters. And so we have waves, traveling over chemicals.
24:17
Since they're fundamentally like okay. So they're like, there's like, it's a waves. Where is there? These waves are electrical and acoustical.
24:39
These waves are electrical and acoustical and chemical.
24:48
Right. At the point, is that whatever there is, you know, there are some of their electromagnetic, right? And there and they interact with each other, right? You get a bunch of small ways and they they make bigger ways. And the way in some of the ways are some of the wave oscillations, like the lots of.
25:21
So, if large groups of ways of neurons that form oscillations and oscillations are like a judge the created giant, they create bigger wave patterns, the more neurons that Austin together and broader the way that, right? But that's also the slower and the less interested. It's the less interesting way better it is.
25:53
It is getting itself when it's slowing down. It's getting itself. Ready. It's the brain is getting stuff. Ready for whatever comes next, sort of like, constantly getting stuff ready to get for the new stuff that comes in so that you can learn new sequences as soon as it perceives it.
26:17
That the current part of a current sequence, it's already getting ready for. It's already at that point, it's already ready for the next several steps. That might be that the in that sequence or for some other sequence it's already ready for the four comes next and then it's going to get ready for what comes after that.
26:45
But it's like,
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio