=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0247y Pattern Neurons Metaphors
First recorded: 2021-07-14T01:53:45.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/e45e148c-184d-486b-940a-fa60cd114fe3
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Let's just say that a brain state is an electromagnetic configuration of all the things you're focused on.
Well, it's like the electromagnetic configuration of what you're focused on.
So, it's like the electromagnetic configuration of your brain is what your attention is focused on.
So, the positive-negative balance is going to shift to the topics that you're thinking about.
And that will happen, that can be measurable both, that can be measurable in terms of electromagnetism, in terms of blood flow, in terms of electrical voltage monitoring,
dipole activity, or individual neuron spiking, or predicting the topological, the 3D topological map of spiking.
So, dendritic spiking, forwards and backwards dendritic spiking.
The idea is that you have clusters of nodes with all of their parameters
that are basically creating, each creating a representation of part of a pattern,
and then there are other parts of the network and the sequence that are taking smaller pieces of a pattern
and knitting them together into larger patterns.
And this happens within the clusters of a neural circuit, and also within the clusters of microcolumns,
and within the clusters of cortical columns.
And, like, the suprachiasmatic nucleus is an example of the, that is, like, an oscillation of 20 million neurons, right?
That are just, they're oscillating in a loop.
So it's a large group of neurons that are, sort of, like, in the same, oscillating with the same pattern.
And, uh, so the idea is that this, this, uh, a cloud of oscillators, um, basically, like, what can happen is, like,
they all sort of, they all sort of, like, they're neurons that all fire, sort of, like, at the same time, sort of.
They fire in a regular oscillation, tonically, with the neurons that they're in a group with.
So for this suprachiasmatic nucleus, all 20 million of these neurons fire in the same, uh, sort of, uh, temporal cadence.
Okay, so, like, you know, if, it's like there's a rhythm.
There's a rhythm happening, and every, uh, you know, at every beat, there's a beat happening.
There's a beat happening.
I'm keeping the beat.
I'm keeping the beat.
I'm keeping the beat.
And it's, like, you have a pacemaker.
You have, um, a clock.
You have a clock that's keeping the beat.
I'm keeping the beat.
I'm keeping the beat, right?
And so, all the, all the neurons are, like, involved in, uh, like, the individual neurons are going to be involved in oscillations that will group together groups of neurons.
And so, um, I don't know that this is a fact, but I would expect that, uh, it's possible that each microcolumn is going to have, is going to be identified by an oscillation, its body.
And then each, uh, cortical column is going to be identified by an oscillation, meaning its body.
Um, and that is, like, all the different, uh, textures and parts that make up the, um, the, uh, surface area and volume, or, excuse me, the volume, sorry, the volume area.
All the, all the, the atoms that make up the volume of space, those are considered part of the body.
So it's, like, a volume, the body is, like, a volume recognizer.
So recognize, so when I say I recognize an object, uh, the first thing is that I'm recognizing a volume.
That's, that's interesting.
Yeah, so it's, like, if you have, if you could, if you could have a neural network represent a point cloud, the next question is, how can the neural network recognize a volume or an object in that point cloud?
But how can your mind represent, recognize, uh, a neural network, the, the volume, how can your mind represent, uh, a, the volume of your, how can your mind, okay, say this right.
It's a great, it's a great idea, but you gotta say it right.
How can your mind represent the, uh, the volume of objects?
And you have this, like, concept of volume of, like, this is, this is the space in which the atoms that are in this space belong to this object.
That is, that I'm going to, that I can name, I can name this object, okay, this is a, this is a surface, and on a higher level of chunking.
It's a red surface in a window of a music store, okay, and, uh, to, to, uh, and that involved, but all those different representations had to be represented, uh, somewhere.
Because they, because they, because it's like, well, how can I tie it together to representations if they're not physically located somewhere?
If they're not written down somewhere, how can they be tied together?
If they're not materially existential, existent.
But here's the thing, is, all your neurons are firing tonically all the time.
But you're, they're not, you're not reliving the same day over and over and over again.
I mean, it, like, you might if you're, if you're the, the, uh, character played by actor Bill Murray in Groundhog's Day.
Then you're, then that character was experiencing the same day over and over again.
And, uh, and, uh, and that made them want, that made the character want to, uh, go through, uh, a, a character, uh, journey.
Uh, uh, the characters, the character went through this journey where they developed as a, as a person by living the same day over and over again.
Where they were just, it's kind of like, if you could say, well, basically, reality, in a way, is like living the same day over and over again.
It's like, um, so in a, in a very, like, abstract, in a very abstract way.
Um, because you're separating the, what's happening in the world, you're separating that 100% with how you're affecting the world.
Right?
And so you get this, you can sort of, like, you can understand that the world is, is each, with each iteration, it's set up to do the same thing each time.
Um, but, uh, but each time you go into this world, you can choose to play it a different way.
And so that's what the character did in the movie, where, uh, it was, the world was, like, reset.
And, uh, he had to live it again.
But then, uh, it was, like, you know, at first, like, I don't know what's happening, this is crazy.
Uh, you know, how do I get out of this time loop?
Um, this is horrible.
Then, you know, at some point, just, like, trying all this, like, suicide attempts to waking up back in the same, uh, in the same place on the same day, over and over again.
And, uh, you know, uh, going to, basically, um, the place where he was trying to have the best day possible that he could have.
He was trying to do everything right, and treat everyone right, and be the nicest person, and just, because that was the day that he wanted, that's the way he wanted to live that, that day.
Where he wanted to, like, have a day where, uh, he was making everybody happy and solving all the problems.
Saving everybody's butts, and giving a damn.
Um, and enjoying that, and, and, like, getting the most out of that day by being, by living that life, by living that vibration.
And, um, so, but that comes from, like, yeah, you can't be, like, really heavy into, uh, dark gossip, you know, just life damaging other people's lives with malicious gossip.
Like, like, if that's what you're into, like, that's too dark to, um, have the happy life that you want.
You gotta kinda choose between, like, whether you wanna have a happy life, or whether you wanna, like, spread malicious gossip.
Because, one is dragging, like, you think, oh, wow, I'm getting, you know, I'm getting revenge or something.
But, that's dragging your focus into a negative area that just, like, increases the negative emotions that you're feeling.
That are, the emotions are caused by what you're focusing on.
But, you're directing what you're focusing on.
Like, directing this, you know, which, it's like directing which way you're walking.
Or, which way you're taking a bicycle.
Or, where you're traveling to.
Um, that's what, like, focusing is like.
What direction are you walking in?
And, if you're, if you're, if you're, uh, spreading malicious gossip, you're walking in a direction that doesn't make you feel good.
But, if you are focusing on making your life the best it can be, uh, and being, uh, the best, the, in creating the most wonderful experiences for other people.
Like, the character in Groundhog's Day.
When you're spreading joy everywhere.
Uh, and doing great things.
And, that's your focus.
That's what you're focused on.
Not on the negative.
You're focused on the, uh, the world you are.
Are, uh, uh, you, the person you're focused on building yourself to be the person you, uh, want to be.
And, that becomes your focus.
Because, you realize that that is where, that's when you're going to get the most rewards.
You're going to get the most rewards when you change your whole, uh, energy and focus to the things you want to be focused on.
Um, so that you're accomplishing the goals you want to accomplish.
And, that is just, that is, you can do it in the same way you can change which direction you're walking in.
And, so that means that you can, you can paint all the stuff that you are, that you don't want to be focused on.
And, tilt brush.
In one area.
And, you can focus all the stuff you want to be focused on in another area.
And, then you can take the stuff that is, that you don't want to focus on.
And, put that in a box.
And, just draw a box to represent it.
So, it's just like a blank box.
Right?
That's, but, that's, the box contains all the stuff you don't want to be focused on.
So, now it's like really tiny.
And, then shrink that box.
This, it's the smallest you can shrink it.
And, then make it, so make it really small.
And, make it really far away.
But, then turn around and go to the box that can, now, you create a new box that contains all the stuff that you want to be focused on.
And, make that box really big.
And, and, you know, so big that you're like inside the box.
Right?
And, in that sense, all the stuff you want to be focused on is in the, in the, in the big box that is right, that you're in.
And, it's like everywhere you look.
Because, you put yourself inside this giant box.
And, so no matter which direction you look, you're, you're going to be focused on what you want to be focused on.
Okay?
And, this is, this is how, this is part of how you're going to heal your life.
And, how you're going to heal from the, the, the wounds.
And, that came from your, that came from your, that came from certain, certain things.
By making them small.
And, far away.
Until brush.
And, making the stuff you want to focus.
Big.
Really big.
And, right up, right up front and center.
And, that is, that's how you, that's how you, that's how you, that's how you, that's how you begin to change.
With these metaphors that you're walking through, these temple and spatial metaphors.
And, visual metaphors, and audio metaphors, you are changing your thought pattern.
But, you're changing thought pattern is actually also a changing electromagnetic pattern.
Like, literally, an electromagnetic pattern that is changing.
And, so, if you have the new pattern, the new pattern is the regular pattern.
The new pattern becomes the regular pattern.
Because, you have taken this focus, this focus, and you have, sort of, you've, sort of, like, decided to make it into a ritual.
How you get to this focus.
I have this practice that brings me into this focus.
It could be, like, a meditation practice, a yoga practice.
It gets, it gets you into the focus you want to be in.
It could be going, getting away from certain environments completely.
And, immersing yourself in brand new environments.
Or, you don't have to have brand new environments.
You could just, if you're, if, you could just go for a long walk in a new area.
Or, a nice area.
An area that you like.
So, that you can get away a little bit from other people.
And, you can begin to talk things through to your microphone.
And, then, listen back to what you shared later on.
So, you can work through some ideas this way.
Thank you.
