b0242y ctpr
(audio the transcription needs fixing)
ITS ALL INSIDE YOUR BRAIN

00:01
Man. Belt technology.

00:07
Fan belt. He built technology. That was going to.

00:20
Change the earth like biological machines. Like imagine you could change the machines at this that are you could emerge man with machine by creating nano machines that merge with the human body like you just pour nana machines on your like skin and they like know what to do and they start communicating with yourself and so they tell you, they can basically like transmute yourself.

00:56
They can like instruct your body to build to build to, they can, like, construct your body to.

01:11
To build like an AI computer system that that monitors and protects your body's structure and repairs your body's structure and builds new structures. Like the AI will like merge with your biology but then it will intelligently communicate with your biology and then reproduce itself and until it's able to have enough of its own tissue made from your tissue that it can use to like fully control and take over the repair and maintenance and protection and regrowth your body and changes.

02:01
It's like a symbiotic. It's like not the same symbiotic. It's like, it's like a cybernetic upgrade. The second cybernetic upgrade. It's like an intelligent friend. That is a robot that is keeping you alive. And is like repairing you if you're damaged and giving you like physical upgrades that can increase your capability.

02:27
So that your mind is merging computation so that there's a rare between artificial computation and like there's a thread that you will like see like an augmented reality head. You can like even like run programs on this augmented reality terminal and it will like answer you correctly, because it's like your communicating with the computer your as you make computer requests from the computer of your mind, you'll get computer results.

03:18
Once your mind about once went to your mind, has been redeveloped by the new AI. And so, I'm saying, because you'll have this like terminal sort of, like, it's like a computer screen. It's like saying you'll see a computer screen. You'll see a computer screen in your, in your head.

03:35
In your brain, you'll see a computer screen in your brain and you'll be able to talk to it and you'll be able to interface with your computer, like normal, but it will all be happening from with it with from prom inside your brain. It's like if you're computer with traveling with you, but it's inside your head, right?

03:57
It's like it's the same as your laptop. You may even see your laptop. It's like your laptop is floating in the sky in front of you but it's actually just inside your head and then so you can talk to your laptop and you can change whatever you want. You can change the music, you can change the lighting, you can change the way the world works.

04:16
Looks. You can like computer graphics on top of reality, but it's all inside your brain.

04:31
And this is where this is where the future is going. Everything you see is computation reminders inside your brain, you are computer program. Those, it must either contraction to show muscles muscles, growing fitness is all about going to test

05:05
So, I am going to

05:34
As.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio