b0250y ctpr
 (audio transcription needs fixing)
 
 More ideas Eggs Omelet Worries
00:01
Okay. So, I thought Right. It's about wellness, right here. When you're letting other people, In other words, when you think about someone and you start trigging yourself, you're thinking about because you're dwelling on all the negative shit about that other person about how they wronged you about, how they might wrong, you in the future and you're just like, dwelling on how bad and evil other people are.
00:44
Like, it's just like, you're letting your fears, you're just make the generating procedurally generating, imagine of fears of all the different ways that other people could possibly do something to you that would hurt you in the future and that's like a bad mental place to be in. It's kind of a fucked up place to be and mentally but it's also like it's about it.
01:12
It you can you can recover from that if you understand, I think better what's happening in a situation like that? Which is where the things that you don't want to be focused on are amplified in your mind when you're in that state. But the things that you do want to be focused on are, are not amplified enough and so you find yourself spending too much time on your worries, and then you like and then, well, what what amount of cognitive capacity, do you have left over for focusing on stuff that's not worries, right?
02:00
And so the there's a, I think that, you know, there's this book that called don't spit a small thing's that it's very useful to some people who are just there. They're, they're in that sort of like pattern of sweating the small things but you have to like you know realize everything is a small thing if you if you need it to be everything is a small thing if you need it to be.
02:27
And so all the, all the triggers you have, you have all these triggers out there in there, like conceptual. They're not, they're just conceptual, it's like their concepts in your mind, on some level there there's reality there's physics outside the concepts, right? There's forces and so on, but the at the concept level, we're just talking about what's in your mind and what you're focused on what you're mind is focused on.
02:56
Okay? What? You're spending your mental energy on. It is. If you can shrink, if you can mentally shrink down, whatever that worry is, you can make it small, she can make your worries small make the worries. If it's another person make that person small in your mind. Like, okay, well, this this I'm I'm using a dial like a, like the wheat, like the wheel on a mouse or it could be a dollars like a like a slider or volume control, turn into volume up or down, and I'm turning the volume down on this person that was stressing me out.
03:44
Even as I I'm doing it in my mind, I'm imagining that I'm turning their volume down in my mind. So they're quieter and quieter and they're like becoming quieter and quieter this out this. So the person that I was that I was stressing but they're not. They're very quiet like a mouse and I and I said, okay well what how loud are they not just to me but to everybody and so I just imagine that they're just they're just quiet to everybody.
04:11
They're volume is turning down their volume is going down and they're getting smaller and smaller and I'm less and less worried about this this person and that person because I'm just making them all small. In my mind, all the people that were wearing me, I'm making them small in life.
04:30
I feel better because they're smaller, they're quieter their weaker, their powers is not that not as strong, as I thought they're the amount of of things that they have to think about. It is more interesting than me is like that is the more interesting than you or me, or anyone else.
04:54
Like they don't have that much energy or time, really. They have to be, you have to like when you get it, think about this. When you get up, you have to think about where you're moving in your actual physical scenario. You have to think about what, what if you hungry, you gonna have maybe images of food, or you'll think about food.
05:17
And you have some kind of representation of maybe you'll think about eggs and you have a representation for eggs that is made of, and I have to think about your own representation for eggs, right? Do you see a picture of eggs or or what? What if you see anything?
05:37
Do you some people? Don't imagine don't, they don't see eggs. I see like I guess I see like almost like a photograph of eggs but it's not a, it's like a temporal. Photograph. It's kind of like I see one part of an egg and then another part in another part.
06:01
And then another part and sort of like a like, you know, like a stroke light crazy. It's like on and off effect but it's like there's a strobe only happened once and so the light but the light doesn't pass over the entire picture at the same time it passes only parts of the picture at a time.
06:21
So it's like, okay, the second. Imagine you're seeing a car and at first, we only show you the tires and then we show you the, the part of the car that has the door handles and then we only show you the part of the car that has the windows.
06:34
So it's going. So the camera is going up and then we only show you the roof for the car but we're not sure you're the windows, okay? And you only see this once. But every time I say eggs, I'll see you like the very bottom of the eggs and then above that, and then above that and then above that, and a sequence.
06:51
And so eggs is like, yeah, it's the thing that I'm evoking of visual representation in my visual cortex but it's not, it's not an image that I see. I don't see eggs floating in front of me, like an augmented reality where you have this, where you have sort of like eggs floating on say you're walking past a light post and you just have eggs floating on the light post and there's stuck there.
07:24
They're staying there. What's interesting is like yes. So that would be like position tracked, imagined eggs. All right. There's like you mesh it's hard for me to imagine like they're just on the ground somewhere but if I imagine they're next to the the car tires. Imagine eggs. That's the part tires.
07:39
You walking past the car tire, right? That's position tracked imaginary eggs in my visual cortex but and prefrontal text. But there's also if you but what's weird is like if I'm walking like I can also like imagine eggs are just like floating in front of me at like where if I was sitting down at a table in a restaurant and you put a plate of eggs in front of me.
08:04
Okay. Eggs this morning and eggs are really good but like if you put a plate and in front of me and but I'm walking, but I'm walking so it's like I have a walking tray and there's eggs in front of me, they're floating in front of me and they're not, these are not position tracked.
08:18
This is like they're the position is relative to my body. And so yeah, so it's body relative as opposed to world world position. So, it's like, that's a that's local as a difference chain world world position, and a local position. So, the eggs that our next to the wheel of a car, as you're walking past the car, that those those eggs are, you know, world person if you're in a car and you're here, listening to this, the other way to think about it is like, if you have, if there's like a big pilot, there's a good giant giant pile of eggs that are sort of like they're they're sitting on outside your car.
09:18
It's a giant like we're talking about like thousands of eggs, okay. And they've all been, they've all been turned into a scramble, you know, like kind of like an omelet, the scrambled omelet and it is the right.
09:42
The situation where we have to think about Any pro.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio