b0257y ctpr
Micah book Dmt Nutrition
00:01
Hang on. Yeah. I was just I was just setting my okay. So so yes. So all right. So what is the question here? Let me see if I can answer this.
00:23
Uh-huh.
00:33
I see. Okay so so the way I would, I would describe it had. So how do you ever played Tetris for like five hours or more like make or play any video game for like such a long time that after you are done playing the video game, you could see the video game when you close your eyelids, you can still see like the tetras blocks like when you were like, just like, I'm just like lying with down with my eyes closed, I can still see Tetris for some reason.
01:02
It's, it's that it's that the brain is in that moment. And in order for you to see those tigers blocks, your brain has to make a graphics. And so, what my book is is proposing is an explanation of how your brain has a graphics processor that your visual cortex, the effect of the graphics processor and so, but but going beyond that.
01:37
So that's like everything you're seeing right now is like, created in in a like, by a kind of graphics processor. We could design a machine that that basically can perceive reality in the same way as your brain just by making that the computations performed in your brain. And so that is, that's the basic, that's this one of the many ideas.
02:05
So but then also, what has to be talked about is how all the other senses work is well. How those are rendered? How you perceive them, how you make models of reality? Like the like, where are you? Are you in a city? Are you in like a place where you don't know what the name of the city is like, right?
02:24
You know, everything. Like what kind of construction of reality do, you know, do you have around you? Like, do you think about the planet is being like this flat land, where in the heavens, there are literally, angels and below the ground somewhere below. The ground is hell, like, what kind of, like, construct of reality?
02:44
Are you mounting that you're in, right? Or maybe I imagine it's your own planet, right? And so like that, it's kind of like your expectations for what reality are are kind of like they are affecting the, the rendering of reality for you. And so, yeah, you could have some who does something like DMT or psychedelic drug and their expensive.
03:14
Reality is gonna get real wild for compared to what they're used to because they're, they're gonna be seeing patterns all over the place and reality is gonna change from with DMT, especially reality, may they might see aliens, they might travel to other planets, they might live other lifetimes, the possibilities with that chemical are amazing.
03:35
If you could experience another another life in another galaxy, or something or meet alien life. But it's like, it's as if your brain is operating as like a hologram like holiday, like the Star Trek holy deck where able to render any kind of holographic image to represent any kind of structure, or any kind of combination signals with divisional.
04:03
Signal seeming is because the they it takes so much to process. The visual information that we have and it's individual. Information is correlated with all the other sensory information, you know, attacked like tactile and like, the Samadison's report text interweaves with the visual cortex because there's so much like, whenever you're holding your phone and looking at your phone at the same time, there's so much hand I coordination where the site and what you're doing with your hands has to be aligned right in with income in.
04:34
So it's a multimodal price, active feedback system of your hands and I is working together to navigate reality but it's like. So then this is just a small piece of it but then we have to like the scribe how hearing you know you hear something. And it travels to travel to the, to your old brain.
04:59
First it travels up the brain stem and eventually gets the Neo Cortex. We got to travel the path of hearing from, from your ears, to the thalamus, to the audio cortex. And then, and then what has to be talked about our brain oscillations. So we have to talk about certified.
05:23
How information how information is not just like, you know, with the computer you have like information happens and computation happens in a series of steps you have states but it's kind of like your states in a in a human being in a biology are just like non-stop. Like there's not there's there's always this sort of current state.
05:47
And there's always like the updating state and and so, they never the updates, never stop. It's like programming something that never stops for you to anyway, but But we got
06:19
I mean, I I'm not sure exactly what I mean. Yeah, there are if you look this, I mean, if you ask if you look on, if you ask this, this type of question to research engine, of course you can find
06:44
What is it? No, I know. Yeah, I know what it is. I know it is. Yeah, you know for what is your question about?
07:05
I say.
07:32
And,
07:38
Okay. Well, it's um, so it's interesting that so, you know, people like they people who are depressed like they're given serotonin, right? They're given SSRI, and the SSRI kind of like the kind of, like interferes with this with a serotonin uptake, it's a serotonin uptake inhibitor. So that means that you have receptors that are attached to neurons, that are trying to uptake the neurotransmitter of serotonin.
08:10
And now, they're being interfered with. They can't accept. It'll be like, they're being like blocked. So it takes like it it takes whether being clogged, I guess I can stay a clogged because it takes like less to excite them. So they're more excitable. So that's like, instead of having a brain that's like, I'm really bored by this.
08:32
You feel like oh this is really interesting because it's like, it's being. It's being like, a part of your brain is more excitable, I guess and psychedelics are similarly, like, they're serotonin, agonists, and but, but there, but they affect different serotonin receptors. They they, they, they're serotonin agonists for like receptors in the neocortex versus in the old brains, so they so the chemicals.
09:07
Go to different places. So this is true for LSD and silicon masculine and DMT which is an ayahuasca. So is DMT with the bandicas banikasi? Vine that allows the DMT to cross the blood brain barrier and the DMV, the DMT has a much more profound effect on your brain because of because it's mixed with the with the vine that will allow it to cross the blood brain barrier.
09:39
But what happens is now, the, the DMT is a serotonin agonist, but it's not going to the old brain, which what's used in antidepressant treatments, instead, it's going to the neocortex and as it, it basically acts as sort of like, artificial nutrition. It's like, it's stimulating. The, I think it could be, I think attack here to say that it's stimulating, the, it's causing the cell to stimulate faster.
10:15
So it does have an effect where, yeah, the cell is going to be firing faster. The cells are going to be more active, your cells are going to be speeding up. You're also late the oscillations in your brain, will be speeding up. So be faster and more frequent. It's like, it's like someone gave you a dose of caffeine but a fucked ton of it.
10:31
And so, it's like it's like your brain is gonna be moving super fast. And the results of that is, is gonna be like, hallucinations, okay? And but, but this is like, oh, all this all. This is stimulation. So if you have like a good nutritional environment, like a protein, rich nutritional environment for your brain, then then this should result in improved health, you should get healthier if you're for some reason, like a malnutrition, you might have a bad trip.
11:06
You got to make sure that you want to have foods. That are like, you know, all your essential amino acids. All your essential fatty acids, your omega-3s, you want to have good good amounts of omega-3 every day. You want to basically take like choline supplements and you tropics, you there's a whole bunch of metopics.
11:30
You don't have to take them all, but you take something. There's like all the, there's all the waste hams already. See am s. That's a family of new tropics. You can combine them with choline, some people take acetylcholine, which is like ridiculously expensive and I don't think it's worth it.
11:49
Like, why is why is coaling so much cheaper than acetylcholine? I don't know. I don't know. It doesn't make any sense. It's like that's tickling, there's no reason to take osteochaling, but it's this is a necessary to pay that much more, but the yeah. So so I mean, but but in general like you know, you don't mean, you want to think of the branch.
12:14
You don't want the brain to, you don't want to overstimate the brain. So so things that like stimulants are going to. They might cause the brain to, you want to get to it, you want to get to like equilibrium, you want to get to balance because if you're over stimulating your energy, if you're over taxing your energy system that causes underwear and tear, and your body needs to rebuild after that.
12:38
And if you're like over taxing all the time and your body doesn't have enough energy to rebuild completely, then you're moving towards disease and in aging, right? So you want to find a sort of like equilibrium between your energy, input, your nutrition and your energy output, and how much you're taxing yourself, whatever that is because somewhere in there is like your lifespan, right?
13:02
So, you just want to be careful with, like, not working too hard and are working too little. Yeah.
13:29
Sure, that's cool.
13:56
Thanks man. Appreciate it. Always good to chat with folks. I yeah, I mean I got to not get it like finished my book not just talk about it, right? So it's gonna go do some work, some real work. Okay, great.
14:23
Right. Well there. Thanks so much guys. I'll talk to you later. And feel free to connect.
14:42
I mean from from a ton of research just just focus on good nutrition. There's like a ton of research like bad nutrition. Is like, where is where it gets harder to learn and if you have like high quality nutrients, you know, all essential amino acids, all essential fatty acids, then you're going to like, you're going to learn the best.
15:07
You're going to have the highest IQ in five years, like you want the best nutrition, it's just like yeah, actually we'll change but nutrition causes those changes. So, okay, I got it.
15:26
Oh yeah, yeah.
15:32
Sounds good, right?
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio
