=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0259y Cells Electrodes Brain
First recorded: 2021-06-24T18:36:51.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/a56d0701-9251-4ded-bd5c-37fe5c98bd23
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
The question is, if you have a great of cells, the question is, how do we translate the signals that are passing between these cells into the computational reality that you experience, that you see, hear, feel, taste, and touch?
How do we translate the communication between cells and the brain into a computational pattern is your reality.
That's the goal of what my book sets out to do.
The goal of this book is to translate how cells, how communication between cells computationally results in the reality.
And so we're going to take a walk through neuroscience, but also things that have been learned in the history of brain-computer interfaces,
from external devices to surgically implanted electrodes, electrode arrays, Utah arrays, DBS, deep brain stimulation.
And also many other different...
I won't catch this on your recording.
I will only speak when other people are not within hearing range.
God damn it.
You know what?
That trips me out.
The idea that, like, there could actually be a...
There could actually be a collective entity that is sending swarms of people...
Remember, you thought you were thinking of, like, gang-stalking, right?
You thought you were thinking of gang-stalking.
There could be a collective entity.
What?
You know, it's like...
You feel like you're never alone, right?
Like, you're never alone.
There's always somebody who is walking over to me, you know what I'm saying?
It's like their brain is always trying to catch one more word, one more sound.
Like, if each person could just collect one idea, then all of the people might collectively have that idea.
And then, somehow, the collective entity would crunch that data.
And they would all share.
Like, they would all begin to share that idea somehow.
I don't know.
Maybe it's, like, literally gossip channels.
Right?
What if there's, like, a gossip channel?
And that a lot of people are tuned into?
Where would I find this gossip channel?
Like, yeah.
Where would I find it?
But maybe it's, like, yeah.
It's, like, just a whole bunch of separate, inter-like, independent, established, like, city gossip channels.
