b0251y (audio) ctpr
edited out a lot

15:22
It's slowing down my cognitive processes and distracting. My my ability to see, focused on on the narratives that I've been following, so that I've been weaving.
15:45
And right, when I said that, I had this like this feeling of, like, sort of like, doubt sorrow and fear, and sadness. And my my narrative is sort of like self-generating generating but but by a fictional self, it's just like this. I'm weaving a story, but the, but being at the same time, it's really.
16:24

There's a story emerging from from cellular interactions and it must be the case, because if you have like a really like a story that has a lot of complexity, a lot of details because this is a story. It's like there's always like visual information going through the story. And then I'm hearing, I'm hearing the reflections of voices.
17:00
My voice other people's voices and this is this data is sort of happening at a long side, the visual stuff. So there's like there's like audio stuff happening, and there's visual stuff happening and there's feelings stuff. What's called feelings in my body? In my chest? In my heart fingers, it's windy.
17:41
So, I feelings in my hair. My, I think I'm like, what I can. It's like my arm. I feeling my arm in the sense. Like, I don't know if my, my hand and elbow and shoulder in my head, it's like cold cold in the wind. And I noticed that when the amplitude of the wind seems to pick up when the wind feels stronger.
18:02
I mean, when the breeze is harder are going stronger than that, thicker air flow. That's pressing on me with more force is causing me to notice these other just, is that information that I'm putting a representation of is happening, alongside the the temperature intact up the attack. The tactile feeling of the wind and the, the temperature feelings of the body are happening at the same time, but I'm but I'm also making between those those two types of since sensor sensory, representations that are happening in different parts of the brain.
18:59

But it is that fact that cells communicate? They basically they're sending like I so I think that the way it works is, I'm receiving a type of pattern and representing that type of pattern is accurately as possible. The network is and so you have the different parts of each section of the network, representing different parts of each pattern.
19:26
So, that as a whole, the network is representing a sort of reconstruction, of, of a whole pattern but a reconstruction that includes sort of like 11 different details that are represented by different parts of the neural network and then with cells are are so it's representing this pattern but then cells are communicating the pattern that they're that they're detecting to to other cells in their local neighborhood, okay?
20:01
To the local area and then to the and then that cluster is, then isn't coordinating a larger scale patterns to other clusters. So there's like a large, there's like a large scale connection, like a macro scale connection of large scale pattern representation, but what that means is like so you'd have small scale pattern representation in a cortical column, but then you would have large scale pattern representation communication happening between narrow columns.
20:47
And so, you could say, yeah, we are the microscale and the macro scale, but the level that the amount of scales of representation could be a lot more than just micro or macro we could be talking about like a representation before every possible hurts. That that a a brain wave could feature.
21:21
But but that means that like okay but that's like here's the thing is what happens is it's not you gonna have? I think what you're gonna have is this situation where the patterns on the, the micro the micro pattern
21:58

Yeah, let me get back to my representation. Okay. So like if you have this incredible detail, why is it that I can? My short-term memories? Like okay, I can remember like five numbers at one time, right? Or I mean some people can remember, remember a lot of numbers but it's like, okay, it's like here's the next.
23:31
Like, imagine that a large scale pattern representation. What could be like our scale pattern representation? Could be like, it could come down to our situation, where? Okay, so if you see that basically you have like large groups of neurons that are
24:07



Audio