b0254y ctpr
Criteria Plastic Displays
00:00
When everything is going up in a very unexpected way, protect your map of reality. If you are expecting that a certain action will yield a certain result, and then something that you were lying on isn't reliable that day, you better backup plan because if you don't go back and plan, then you have fun that work or whatever without your whatever your appointment is.

00:35
So, like the whole thing about, And,

00:55
So like yeah this situation is like someone doesn't someone is like give me a ride that they don't trust you.

01:16
Then that person's not your friend at that moment, right? Because your friend is someone who trusts you like that's we're friends if we trust each other that's one more friends. But like if you're afraid like if I'm like, if I go to a thing that I invited you to, but you're afraid to show up.

01:41
Like I'm gonna feel like you don't trust me now, like you've changed from trusting me before, it's not trusting me now. And I think that,

01:55
So I feel like when I came to the conclusion that I were like, That means that you're afraid of me now. And I came to the conclusion that like, not what I would not be afraid of me. Like a friend would know me better, and trust me, right? Because you're sending me a bad virus now.

02:15
And you're like, you're being set. You're being, you're acting. Like, I'm sketchy. That's this. That's, That's insulting right? It's insulting. And but then I was also trying to just deal with another relationship where I was trying to be just a good friend, but I failed to

03:11
Be platonic, but I think she also failed to be platonic, like I just proposed her not being platonic. And, and like, I think that like, she asked me to take the photos, too. She asked me to take this first and I took them. And, and then I like, I showed them to her afterwards and she's like, yeah, can you not show this to anybody?

03:36
All right, but you asked me to take the so you want to meet a see that? But like as a camera, there's a camera person crap

03:58
So anyway, I think she's like yeah, but like so whatever the game is there that is kind of like

04:11
At dinner.

04:19
It's kind of like she's you want to have a sort of temporal agency. I mean yeah, what I really shooter so like a chemical agency is like yeah it's like is able to basically yeah. So template agency is like,

04:43
Are able to manage multiple patterns. You're able to manage the time series, be able to remember a time series of patterns and you're able to execute operations across that entire time series, right? So let's say that. Yeah. Like, you're predicting, like you have a number of different paths, 
okay?

05:11
Then you could walk in, you can walk in the number of different directions. Okay, you're walking down the part and kind of go anywhere you know for a while but it's yeah there's it's Golden Gate Park. That's what I wanted. Okay, I'm gonna take the path. I take the trail.

05:35
I was like I walked across the green but you know the beaten path is kind of nice. Sorry. It's already a path. You're not spending lots of time feet. Make sure you open something.

05:57
Now, this is good. So I biked down here to Golden Gate park, and you know, I kind of thought that what I needed was to be next to people. Sort of see myself in the eyes of other people, that is really changing.

06:29
Changing housing myself, right? It's how I see myself in the eyes of other people. That's changing myself. Okay. So,

06:46
But the thing is like, so I've changed and I thought of people like they don't know who I was before. Most people that I see, they don't know who I was before. They don't know what was going on with me last year when I was heavy. And so I think that I have sort of like an interesting like emotional journey to show, right?

07:17
There's so much that you can talk about. Like I could talk a lot about like there's, you know there it's like

07:44
You know, I like

07:51
I feel like the victim here because Like this all started over like a misunderstanding and like that. Originally, she said was no big deal. Like, I didn't know, I didn't like mean for her to be upset by anything that I had done. There's no intention for me to like, get hurt at any kind of trouble.

08:25
There's no, like there's no possible way that I could have intended to hurt her at all. There was nothing that was superiorly. Innocent. I really personally was starting to hate the sky based on the stories that she was telling me. And,

08:54
So,

09:01
So he didn't really like the way I, it turned out like he didn't really have a clue. He didn't really have a clue about what I was talking about because I was so vague, he didn't really know what I was talking about. It could have like it could have been anything that anyone made up like he talks to thousands of people.

09:27
It could have come from anywhere. There's so many like he has such, it's like, it's the see, the problem is that, like, I mean, you got to go back to like, someone was shopped into, like really great fear, all right? She was shoved into great fear of sudden because all of a sudden she's like, oh shit.

09:56
Now, someone realizes that I was gospeling about them. That's very dangerous for her for someone else to discover that she's gossiping about them. Okay, that's who's just what she does. That she goes so that everybody right? But it's all lies and I believed her life, and I believe this lies and I was like, Armenian in a way because she was, always sad.
10:32
And I was there to comfort her. And the way I comforted her was by leaving her life, that's what gave her comfort. And if I like kind of like, for me, what I think sort of like fractured her psychology and the relationship was the fact that I began to see through her false stories about other people.
10:59
Too many times. I stopped believing. She was like an innocent and other people were just bad people. It turns out she has real dark psychological mental health issues. That also are like social. She doesn't understand how like, how to how to be a professional and a professional setting. She's not.
11:28
It's like there's not a clear understanding of the separation and connection between your mental concepts and that in between the canvas of mental concepts and the array of of sensor and feeling an emotion's complex. There is there's a sensor array and emotions complex, and then there's this conceptual space, right?
12:15
And we kind of like the way you convince yourself that something is a good product. Is you, you like each person can have a different way of convincing themselves, but it, but in a sense, you know, you're listening to different kinds of criteria and when you get some sort of summation across all of your different little sets of criteria, then, you know, that's the right time to buy.
12:51
That's the right item for you. When you like when you see something and like it crosses off your criteria for this, it crosses off your criteria for that. It crosses off your criteria for 20 different things that you they need to know. You cared about right? Like this LCD is 20% better than LCDs 10 years ago.
13:19
And yeah yes I need that this innovation was regardless. You're getting the best ever the best plastic? Yes best plastic. This plastic is really great plastic, it's high grade plastic. It comes from like buffalo ears and you know like dinosaur bones and stuff that was you know like just really weird stuff that things like found the ground for a really long time and then it became petroleum and it became plastic, right?
14:09
So it's like no, this is like the very best but this is a very basketball quality. This is like, it's like, I don't know, we don't have like, we don't have to pat this name, but it's like, we've got Chevron with attack on okay? And got tech on. It's this magic.
14:30
This magic stuff that's like it makes our plastic better, right? It makes it better. So we're gonna like try to sell this this plastic, but that's not all. Not only does it have the best plastic? It's like the ratio of lightness to to durability to scratch ability. I mean these are all there are there's there's a lot of different materials out there that any any maker could consider as a potential materials for for a device we're thinking outside the box.
15:09
We think of like yeah well we can integrate the VR into a normal hat. We can just do like it's gonna be so lightweight, we're just gonna integrate into a hat. What do we think about what we're just making this display. Small energy, like a plastic visor that doesn't weigh anything right here.
15:32
I'm saying like we're just translating, we're just transmitting the visor this is going to be like every day fashion Oculus is going to be part of your everyday fashion. It'd be something you wear like you can like you can have your iPhone when your partner, you know. You can just plug in your, your bicer, you know, and suddenly, you're in immersed, in a VR air situation.
16:02
And here's the thing, it doesn't have to be like, kind of, it doesn't have to be boxing. Your eye in, right? This is not a, that's not that big of a deal, right? So like we you're gonna be engrossed in the application. Even if the, even if you can see your surroundings, we'll have an up brightness, that it, you know, but it's in the future displays, we're just beyond incredible.
16:34
It's being a long road to get to those future displays. But the brightness is just, you know, we're talking upwards of 100,000 minutes. And you know, this is like really the brightest of bright what amazing color and we're talking holographic because these are real holographic diffraction displays there. They're going to basically be able to track your eye movement and send the exact right image for the visitor position of your eye.
17:16
At that moment of time that you experience. So you experience a complete immersion and but yeah, whatever you like, see it's gonna have the brightness, you know, how like this. Like it can like take an account of the light around you and blend with a light around you. So as to completely change here environment, basically just sort of like to recode the basically recode the like the environment that you're in and that and then make it into something.
18:08
That, here we go. And then we're going to go to basically super cheap. But like it's like if you want to get into another, yes. What you have to do is you've got to
18:45
I've got to what is it called? If you want to escape into another universe, he's going to put on a really cheap $100 advisor who attaches to your cap. There is a brain computer interface, it's cheap plasticizer and it doesn't matter at which angle the hat is okay, or which angle the vitreous at because the eye tracking away.
19:18
In the face is basically gonna create the correct image regardless of like. Yeah, if you move this it's position tracking to face and do some tracking eye and calculating the physics in the high so it can project light onto the retina, I can change the same thing or looking at it, anything else.
19:40
So that's the point where you can look down at the palm of your hand and see what looks like a real elephant and your hand because there's an actual like, projector shiny light on your eye. That's going to it's going to convert the light from this to neutral to this, right?
20:06
And so basically yeah, it's a great. Yeah. So basically, it's going to calculate how to like, change all light values until every pixel is a perfect neutral. Okay. And then it's going to apply that light matrix. We wanted to achieve the perfect neutral gray, computer would be like, yes, we were completely changed this part of the light feels and this is completely gray, right?
20:38
Then it can change it to send something else, then it can change it to. Okay. Now, we can project any kind of image here. We can like, basically print reality for this person, we can basically print a world for them to walk inside. And when I realized this, this was like a moment where like I I reached up with my hand and tried to see if there was something on my face, then I was like, that's not my hand.
21:07
It's just a dream hand. Ha, if you're in it, you're not moving your hand and moving the dream head, okay? So, like there's no, you know, right hand to remove your hands.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio