=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0269y Calcium channels open longer
First recorded: 2021-06-10T05:49:02.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/b736a169-2280-4015-a007-b368f91419b0
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So, okay, so what's really interesting was that I learned how the sodium is causing a positive spike, the potassium is causing a negative spike, and when the potassium engages, that determines whether the spike is going to be, is going to have a high amplitude or a low amplitude.
And what's interesting is that with EEG in the brain, there's a power law from the micro-firing of neurons to the macro-firing of neural circuits to dipoles at the super-macro scale.
And, um, so, the power law means is, the power law is 1 over f, which I'm sure you've seen before.
Um, but basically what it means is that, um, the, uh, uh, 1 over f means that there is, it's about the frequency, and, uh, it means that, that the, the, there is, the frequencies and amplitudes are inversely, um, proportional.
So, if the frequencies, uh, increase, amplitudes decrease, if frequencies decrease, amplitudes increase, right?
So, uh, so I'm reading this in the book, Rhythms of the Brain, and I'm hearing him talk about, I'm hearing F. Scott saying, okay, well, basically, the, um, the sodium is, uh, creating this positive wave,
and what happens is, there's this timing thing, where the potassium can either, potassium, it can, can, comes in, and, and it makes it negative.
Now, if, he's telling me, now, if there is something like a multivestical release that he didn't know about before he talked to me, like, he was, like, he knows about, he, he read about something called multivestical body, which is, which is a different, uh, research topic that came up,
but similar, but different research topic, that he read about a couple years ago, and he, he originally asked me if that's what I was talking about.
I said, no, I'm talking about multivestical, vesicle release.
So, he knows, he understands what vesicles are, you know, he's a neuroscientist, right?
And he's, he studies the brain, but he hadn't heard this one concept, and so he's, so he, he was saying, okay, so if, um,
um, more vesicles are being released, uh, depending on, on the amplitude of the, of the, of the action potential,
um, then, um, then the story is that, um, what, if it's, if it's, if it's the result of K, it must be, uh, that, um,
um, there was a delay in when the K started, because if, if, if the multi, if the vesicle release depends on when K started,
then, then what it, what it means is that if K is, if the start of K is delayed, then that means that the, um, uh,
then that means that in the, in terms of timing, that means that, um, the, the channels, the calcium channels are open longer,
and the calcium channels let, let calcium in, because there's hardly any calcium in the, in the body, in, of the cell,
and so the calcium channels are open longer, and, um, that means that, uh, a much greater, uh, signal is gonna,
that means that the, the open longer, and because they're longer, like, a lot, a lot more neurotransmitters
are gonna pass through to, through the receptors to the, uh, to the post, uh, synaptic circuits, okay?
Now, what was interesting was that, so, so he was telling me, like, okay, so imagine a sack of oil
that has a bunch of chemicals in it, and this is his, this is his description of, um, of a, of a micro,
uh, uh, vesicle, uh, and, just imagine a bubble of oil, okay, now, now imagine, he said, imagine
there's two bubbles of oil, and they collide, right? So they, they collide, and they sort of merge,
and whatever they have just spills all over the place. So he says, so imagine that, so, anyway,
we're talking about, like, how these, like, if, if you have more than one sack of oil with a bunch
of neurotransmitters in it that, that collide, well, what's gonna happen is there's a whole lot
more material in the area where the synapses are. So that means that more material is gonna spread,
and, and more synapses are gonna be reached, and I said, aha, that is a, that's, you're transmitting
spatial information at that point. And, anyway, it's a long, it's a long story, there's a whole,
there's a whole lot more, but I'm, like, I'm on the airplane, and I'm, like, combining, like,
no, I wasn't, I was, I'm not on the, no, no, I, I, I, I just, I was describing how, when I was
on the airplane. Yes. When, when I was in the airplane. Yes.
Does he, does Episcop, I mean, also, uh, Silicon Valley? I, I, um, I don't know, I, I know him on
Twitter, and I, and I know, but I have, and, but I know, I know I'm on Clubhouse, too, so I have to
look up his name and, and get that over to you, but, um, but yeah, so anyway, so I have, I have all
these, like, breakthrough ideas that come, that are really awesome, and, um, and I see the new stuff
coming out, the new news, and, um, some of it is, is, is, I feel like some of these, some of these
people, like, some of it's really exciting, like, there's the whole thing with the clump of brain
tissue they took out of a woman's brain when she, because she has epilepsy, and, and they, um, they
preserved it. Yes. That's exciting, but. And, and also the, the new imaging, the new 3D imaging of,
uh, uh, Google and Harvard, which is a massive, uh, imaging of the brain, and they saw that,
um, when there is some, um, connection from the axons, uh, instead of just one, they're about 19,
uh, connections, and, uh, they said, what's happening to this? How, uh, why, why haven't we seen this
before? So what's the, the function of these 19 connections, which we haven't seen before?
So, yeah, it leads to a lot of, uh, questions, which would lead to other questions also. And
it would help us explore and understand the brain more, and whatever theories you had before
will be validated if ever they have more imaging. So I think it's, it's quite exciting. And of course,
today I talked about the quantum microscope, which will also be, have implications for the
brain because usually I don't really talk. I just keep quiet because I was thinking, um,
I have this, uh, you know, feeling that they are all really experts, but after a while, um,
uh, when, uh, Shera tried to just put me there in as a moderator in order to accept people that I said,
maybe that's all that I'll do, but I realized even their physicists are not really that expert as,
as I expected. And, uh, there's, uh, just one good neuroscientist and that's Katarina, which I'm sure
you'll get along well, uh, very well with her. So, uh, otherwise they're just doing freestyle
hosting that they pick up people from the audience to really talk on stage. And anyway, I thought that
if we make this, uh, Silicon Valley global news is non-compete with them because we're going to
interview people, uh, who are reaching out to you, whom we have interviewed before, because I
realized the constraint of our podcast is that number one, we have to have a common schedule with
the person we're interviewing and it's so hard. And number two, we have a video and you are the only
editor and the planner of this. And plus you have to put some, some images to the video as well.
And probably if there's an article, you have to put it in writing and it's a massive job aside
from you being just a host and, uh, uh, talking about your stock knowledge and research on the
topic. So it's not very workable because there's only the two of us. And I thought that if we have
this like podcast in clubhouse, we can even just pre-record it, even if it's just voice and just play it
during the time and be there for a question and answer. And probably, uh, we can, um, just replay it,
you know, in some streaming platform, maybe in the future, if we have really special guests, um,
there. So it's less work because I think what we were doing earlier was not really very sustainable
because you're the only one doing the editing and everything. I think it, it's up a lot of your
time, which you should use for, uh, uh, other things, which only you can do. Yeah. So yeah,
that's why I thought about that. Okay. Yeah. Those are good points. You really thought about this.
Uh, I, I, yeah, I appreciate that. That actually, um, well, great. Okay, good. So, um,
so anyway, um, I, I have a little more knowledge about how clubhouse works. So that's why I,
I thought I will pitch this idea to you. Sounds great. Yeah. Oops. I didn't realize I was on mute.
I forgot I was on mute. I was replying to you. I would, but I, but I, you, you missed it. No,
I said this. I said, what I said was this sounds great. Uh, uh, you really, you really thought
through all of this and, uh, I really appreciate that. I, I agree with your points. Um, and all of
that I, I said when I was on mute, so you missed it. No, no, I'm, I'm on, I'm, I'm more awake now
because I'm like excited about what you're saying. You're making a lot of sense and you really thought
about this. So I, it's good. I appreciated it. And, and, and also as well, um, well, maybe we could
just continue with the podcast in the future, but, um, we'll start from here and we'll have more
followers and, um, we'll have more collaborators here. And, uh, yeah, I think this is a good platform
because on the other hand, there, there is also Twitter spaces that, uh, Robert is using because
I think a lot of people banned him in clubhouse. So that's what he's doing. Yeah. So, but, um,
well, some, sometimes if we are in Twitter spaces in the future, maybe we can have a small
collaboration with him because I was wondering earlier, I said, well, why am I not among the
friends of Robert? Then I realized he put me in his list of people. Uh, he said who are not in PR,
but, um, he's my favorite, something like that was the name of his list. So, um, that's why I was
looking. And so of course there's a chance if, if we need him, if we still need him in the future,
but maybe when we start something out here, it, it will show us a lot of directions to the other
paths that we can take because maybe we can even build projects or, or write some other books with
other collaborators because, uh, quantum photonics is, uh, um, I think they have also good members
who can help us. The others are just, you know, their knowledge is only 20%, but they have the
confidence to speak as if they have 100% of the knowledge. And this is what I found out while just
listening to them. It's only now that I'm starting to speak. And it's only now that I tried to talk to
you because I have cleaned, you know, the pathways a bit. Maybe it's not perfect. We'll find some
disappointments along the way. We don't know, but, um, at least, you know, we do some risk
calculation. Well, well, what, what is a fun coincidence for me is that, um, what you don't
know is that I've met Katerina before and I already liked her and I already have been, uh,
uh, have talked to her on clubhouse many times several weeks ago. So I've already had many great
conversations with Katerina. Um, and I just really liked the fact that you recognized
that Katerina's is really an expert, um, at the things that she talks about and she's really a
great speaker. And, uh, so I think like, um, just like you recognize Katerina, like there's, I've,
I've identified a lot of really great speakers who are very knowledgeable and really, um, know what
they're talking about. Um, so Katerina is one of them. F Scott is one of them. This guy, Nick is another
one. He's a neuroscientist. Um, and, uh, so I think what, what we, what, what I was planning to do in the
future. Um, so what I mentioned was I'm putting together a book that's about the brain and the
plan, the plan was, which I sort of, I sort of explained this earlier, uh, when I was talking,
but, um, it, what it's like, I want to outline sort of like the major concepts that I want to
include in the book, including, you know, that would be the major concepts. It's like, so imagine
if the, if the book is like a lot of news articles, but they're all organized to be fitting,
uh, they're all organized to be fitting into one common overall narrative, but, but there's a,
but there's a lot of different segments and subtopics. So there's like one overarching narrative,
but it's a lot of like talking about a lot of different things in each chapter. And, uh, so that's
the idea, that's sort of like the idea for the book is, you know, we, we've covered a, we've covered a lot
of, um, we both shared a lot of neuroscience research in the, in the Facebook groups and,
and, um, and, uh, we, and, you know, there's a lot of really exciting, uh, speakers that we've
encountered on, on clubhouse. And so what I was thinking was to sort of like, cause I've got to,
I got to talk to Jeff Hawkins, uh, from Numenta and, and he said, I could write him with question,
interview questions and he'll reply so I can interview him by text. I just have to come up
with a list of questions to ask him. Um, and so, uh, what I'm thinking is that, so as soon as I get
the book organized, then I will sort of have like the outline and scope of the overall book in the,
the chapters and the topics that go in each chapter. And that outline will help me figure out,
okay, what do I have? And what am I missing in each area of the book? And then who can I talk to?
Who, what speakers can I talk to? What scientists can I talk to who can validate each part of the
book and talk about the research that goes into it? So I can make sure that not only am I representing
what I think is true about this article or that article, but I have someone who is, uh,
who is working in the field, actually an expert in, in, in the category that, that I'm discussing,
who's going to give me like the real deal that goes beyond what my expertise is so that I can
share that, share the highlights of that conversation with the readers and let them know, you know,
who is, who, who is saying this, who's validating these, these, these, uh, statements so that they
have, uh, a, a really interesting speaker, uh, that they can, uh, learn more about. And in addition,
they have, uh, really interesting articles and references to articles and books that they can read
more about. And all of that grounds the narrative of what I'm saying, what I'm saying about how the brain
works in reality for people. Yes. So yeah. Yes. Yeah. Uh, you know what, um, it's also exciting
because, um, I was the one who invited all the speakers with who are coming because maybe, um,
I was, uh, I was having high expectations of their group, but in the end, I realized they don't have a
system. Um, they don't, uh, use some kind of psychology in order to attract people. And then later on,
I found that they were inviting this guy about, uh, longevity and trying to, to adjust the brain,
which does not have a very strong basis. And they could not empirically even support his, uh,
argument. That's why somebody recommended Aubrey de Grey. And I did not expect that all these people
will, will accept my invitations, including Miguel Nicolelis. So, um, now I realized that what,
well, uh, these people will start to respect us if we have more interactions with them,
even if we've invited Miguel in that group, we can also invite Miguel in, in, uh, um, Silicon Valley
global news later on. So that gives you a connection and maybe Miguel can help validate and, and, uh,
refer you to other, um, neuroscientists. If you have some other ideas that you need validation,
oh, but by the time that you've finished the, the book, uh, you already have a lot of followers. So
all you need is just to put the book in front of them, or even your followers can also collaborate
with you in, right, in, in, in completing the book. So yeah, that's what I'm thinking. So it's a good
tool actually for your project. Yeah, I, I agree. And then, um, I think that, um, uh, so
growing Silicon Valley global news and growing podcasts and growing, I mean, I think that,
I don't know. So what I have been, uh, contemplating after the book is done. So the book is, um,
the book is the thing that I, I started doing, but I thought, well, I, I have been
also trying to sort of keep up my self-imposed obligations to the WebXR community to keep
developing the A-frame extras and A-frame physics and, um, but also to create basically an augmented
reality and virtual reality experience that goes with the book. So that, um, you know, I,
I wanted to create video because, because you can put, because you can put video in, in VR and it's
cool. But, um, but the other thing is that one of the things that I'm doing is basically putting,
uh, animations in a, 3d animations in a, in a sequence that plays along with audio or with video.
And so, um, that means that, um, if there's an audio podcast, we can have animations coming along
with that. And, um, so if the, for example, if there's an audio book, there could be 3d, like 3d things
happening, uh, that could be, that, that could be, you know, that, that could include, uh, slides and
photos, or it could be, you know, interactive 3d objects, but you know, there's certain, basically
like the time, the timeline of the audio or video causes, is going to cause certain events
to happen. And, um, but also, you know, people will be able to pause it. And so this, and these
events will work in AR or VR. So VR, there'll be, you know, um, backgrounds and stuff, but, but, um,
Yeah, that's, that's really very good because, um, um, uh, Sierra, um, in quantum photonics,
is also thinking to do some educational materials, but she has no one for AR-VR. But anyway,
if you have that in the platform that we have for Silicon Valley global news, it could lead to many
opportunities, actually. And even if we just have a good following in Clubhouse for Silicon Valley
global news, which is a wide range of topic that you can do, because of course you always say the
news is happening and then the news is not found in the news. Just like that guy who wanted to talk
about fantasy football, that he wanted to put in the platform of blockchain, you remember?
Yeah. Well, we can easily picture, you know, people like that. And those people who we have,
uh, not pictured very well, um, in the podcast because we lack time or the quality was not so
good. I'm sure that there is a development that's happening. And I'm so glad. I don't know if you
know, uh, Juan Carlos in strong artificial intelligence, the founder of that. Juan Carlos is,
I think is becoming a CTO in Switzerland company, which is involved in brain computer interface
about, um, self-driving, maybe wheelchairs or something somewhere there. And I still have to
talk to him about that because you know, we're kind of close. And ever since, uh, Juan Carlos and I,
we're like, uh, some family because in scientific humanism, they put some people were trying to,
um, discredit. Do you remember when just was still there just waters, um, from, uh, Netherlands,
you know, he has a lot of enemies. So juice is quite close to me. So if they eat juice, maybe in a way,
uh, I am also carried over. So anyway, uh, Juan Carlos defended me and that's how we got close.
And so he made me an admin in strong artificial intelligence. Wow. So anyway, um, that was a long
time ago, but anyway, uh, Juan Carlos has, uh, got his PhD, I think in Georgia tech for, um, um,
AI and, uh, he's helping in audacity about, you know, the nano degrees that they have. But, um,
I think recently went to Argentina because he was helping about blockchain and also some programming,
but I just saw it in his announcement that he was hired by a Swiss company. I forgot the name.
I will inform you later. And I thought that, uh, it's a great, it's great. And we could
interview Juan Carlos also about his work on that. That's wonderful. Can I say? And also it could,
it connects with your, um, with the book that you're writing because whatever findings that he
would be having, you know, in the future about that, it connects to us because Juan Carlos is also
very interested in neuroscience. So in fact, we had courses together in Coursera before,
because of course it's related to AI. So that's why, um, can I say that I've known, I've known Juan
Carlos for a very long time and I didn't know you were connected to Juan Carlos. So that's,
this is like really amazing to me because Juan Carlos is one of my favorite people and he's one
of your favorite people. And I didn't know that. That's amazing to me. He's, yeah, he was the one who
who made that, um, that group, uh, categories for the mind and geometry, which is a math group.
Yeah. I'm a member. So that's why I always post there because we have the same interest. So now
he's like a family because it's been like how many years, eight years, maybe just like a little over
the first time that, you know, we also met. So, uh, yeah. Um, so I, I still have to ask him
about, you know, this new position in that company, but he's one of, you know, he and Arai,
do you know Arai Oscaral, who is in AI philosophy, the founder of AI philosophy, who's also a programmer.
Um, in the past when we were in scientific transhumanism, which was owned by Giovanni Santosassi,
who is a brain researcher. So I, so I know, I know all of these people, um, that I don't get
along with all of these people, but I know all of them. Yeah. I've, I've had extensive conversations.
I've had extensive conversations with all of them. So, um, so, but you know, Arai already unfriended me,
uh, but still, you know, because, uh, what's happening to him is that sometimes he's on heavy
drugs and he could not control it. So, but we're still like talking to each other, but we're no
longer friends on Facebook. So, but, uh, Juan Carlos and Arai, we're close, but Juan Carlos is not the same
as Arai, who is really, uh, very much changed because he's a heavy drug user. So, but Arai is also
brilliant, but Juan Carlos is very stable. So that's why he got that position. Yeah. So,
it's like we are in a good team if we put everyone together. And this time, I'm also so surprised that
I thought that I, of course, Aubrey knows me, but, uh, I, I tried to communicate with him through Maria
in Tri-Guess. Um, she is, uh, his assistant actually, who is a singer also, uh, from July,
from July, I think. So anyway, he accepted. And so we're going to have a closer connection,
you know, with these people who are doing a lot of research and who are, who have networks with other
people who we might need. And my next target is Scott Aronson. He is a computer scientist from, um,
I think, uh, Arkansas or something in Texas. Um, he is researching about this quantum computing
and, uh, yeah, we will connect with him, but I'm doing it, uh, slowly because I realized, um,
I'm just new in that club. And why haven't they thought about inviting these people? And so I just
want to see how they perform first, you know, on this, because this is our social capital. And if I
want to invite more luminaries, I might as well, um, do that for ourselves. Silicon Valley Global News.
Right. Yeah. Yeah. So, but we will non-compete with them because, uh, uh, the coverage of Silicon
Valley Global News is a lot wider than what they have. And in the future, maybe if we have more
followers and people who will listen to us, other clubs will, will go after us. And even those who
wanted to advertise will even beg us to, to, um, feature them more in Silicon Valley Global News.
So yeah, who knows where it can go, but this is, this is a start we're in. We do not put so much
effort on our resources, um, with our limited resources and time that we have now. It's a
convenient platform because as of now, they said that Clubhouse has about 2 million users. So, uh,
even if we do not become so super successful about having that many followers, it will connect us to
people who will connect us outside Clubhouse to, uh, do our projects and get more networks. That's,
that's what I think. Only my opinion. Yeah. No, I mean, I, so do you remember we talked, uh, before about
putting, uh, uh, WebXR, um, pages for the different Facebook groups. Do you remember that?
Yes. I think that's very good also. I think I should concentrate on my quest because I'm not even
connecting with you in order to support you. Okay. But, um, what I'm saying is that what I'm
thinking is, so I've, I've actually thought about what comes after sort of Silicon Valley Global News
or what comes next for Silicon Valley Global News. It's not going, it continues. Silicon Valley Global
News continues, but there's something even bigger coming, which, which integrates everything that
we've been doing for years. Um, and, and what I'm talking about is, uh, basically, uh, I'm moving
towards starting a business that's like, that is like Decentraland or like CryptoVoxels.
Okay. And that's interesting because, do you know what, do you know what those, what those are?
Please explain more to me. I'm not so sure. Sure. Okay. So CryptoVoxels and Decentraland,
basically what's similar about those two companies is that they're both, um, selling
virtual plots of land. Okay. And now, now, but they're both in VR. Now, so we have the Facebook
groups, right? So, so what, so what I did was I bought a domain name. Uh, it's, uh, it's a wet,
VR, uh, dot cafe. And the idea here is, uh, imagine like, imagine like, uh, a little building
that is, I have to send you pictures. I have, I'm going to send you, I'm going to follow up
tomorrow and I'll send you some pictures, but the idea, the idea here is to, is not to create, uh,
a duplicate of Decentraland or CryptoVoxels. Because those are basically, they're selling VR
land, uh, like virtual land. There's also, um, Second Earth, which is another one.
Another one is, uh, is, I think it's called, literally called VR land. Um, there's, there's
like a handful and they're all basically doing the same thing. Like, Second Earth is like a replica of
planet Earth, but you can buy, you can buy property on this virtual version of Earth.
And, um, but there are all these companies that are doing it in, in, in virtual reality. But, um,
but with, but so basically it's like, yeah, there's, they're selling the virtual land.
Um, but, but, um, and then what happens is you, you buy an address that's like,
so there's the website and you buy an address. So like the home of the website,
CryptoVoxels is zero, zero, zero. Those are the address coordinates. And then they sell like
plots of land around that relative to it. So the land that's closest to CryptoVoxels
is in theory, the most valuable and the far, and the farther the way you get from the center,
the less valuable it is. But what happened is some of the land is like, um, uh, like,
like, like every, all the land they're selling on CryptoVoxels is selling for like either an
ETH or one and a half ETH or much, much more. So like the, like what that means is like an ETH right
now is like $3,000. Um, and you know, one and a half ETH is, is, is, you know, more, right? For 4,500 bucks,
something like that. Right. And, and so all of this, like the, the property values have just shot
up tremendously. Like everyone wants this. I mean, enough people want this, this virtual land
and CryptoVoxels that it is worth that much for just a virtual plot of land. But not only that is
you have to, once you have the land, you have to put something on it. Right. And I'm thinking,
you know, well, wait a second, we could have, you know, NFTs. We could have the 3D models of
little mini houses that look really cool. And those are NFTs, but we also have, and then, but, but
also, um, uh, homeowners association. So if you buy the land, you get voting power over what, what,
that means you get to help approve, um, what, uh, what gets approved, what you're, what, like, for
example, your neighbors have to propose, if your neighbor buys land, they have to propose what
kind of house they're going to build on that land and the community gets to approve. So there's
a homeowners association that has to approve, collectively approve new homes so that, so that
the community looks good as a whole. Someone can't buy land and then put something really stupid up
in the community, which would make the whole community look bad. So everyone has to have voting
power. And so there's a homeowners association part of it. And then, so yeah, it's so cute. And
then, so, and this is going to be so big, it's going to be so much money just in this one little
thing that will happen. Silicon Valley global news is it will, it will become like, uh, the newsletter
for this, for this, uh, augmented reality, for these augmented reality towns. So it'll be like,
you know, do you see what I'm saying? Like, it'll go from like the big thing is the big thing is this,
is this, uh, augmented reality, um, uh, thing. And then the smaller thing, like Silicon Valley global,
global news will be like this exclusive newsletter for the community. Right. So it's a total
shift in perspective from like, um, but yeah, I mean, this is, this is what I'm imagining is the,
is the long-term sort of thing that I'm moving towards. And, um, yeah, I think it's really cool
because it's still admits, it's still like, it's, it combines all everything we've been doing. There's
still all the interviews for Silicon Valley global news, but there's also like, basically this is a fit
for like the Facebook groups, right? Because the Facebook groups can, can eat, can each be locations
that, um, that are center points for people to buy virtual land around.
Yeah. And probably you can even do, do NFTs because I know there's a Korean girl who sold an NFT
for a house and, um, um, it's like, uh, you have, you seen her? Um, she sold and she sold an NFT
house with the, an environment where in there is a pool or something. Um, and, uh, of course the whole
house is sold, but, uh, there are some portions that you can buy and you can buy an NFT
furnitures and there, uh, there are co-owners of the house. It's something like what you're doing,
but it's on a smaller scale. But what you're saying now, I mean, I could imagine it into a very
big scale and a lot of people will be very interested in it because according to the bond, whether we
like it or not, we are, we are all, all of us are going to be in a player creator economy.
Yeah. So yeah. And you have byproducts from it and other businesses that come from it. You can even
integrate music and other, um, ambience and, uh, other things that you would want to put in that
virtual community. So yeah, it, uh, it, there's a, there are a lot of ideas that could be done and it
could be used also as a showcase for people having products maybe in the future. So yeah, it's a great
idea. I just don't know how to build it. I'm not a tech person. Yeah. Yeah. Um, all right. So, um,
just, if you want, keep thinking about the idea and, and developing it in your mind, but, but don't,
but don't tell anybody. We just got to keep this between us because we got to, this is just one piece.
Yeah. I promise. You know me. That's why I thought that, you know, we've been like, uh, um, having a lot
of, uh, uh, projects or groups for quite some time. That's why I, I'm always comfortable in trying
to, um, work together with you. That's why I said, I'm going to, um, fix a lot of things,
then go back to you because you know me, I'm very loyal ever since. So, um, it's very difficult
to make new friendships, but, uh, we've been through a lot together. So I, I never forget. And it's,
uh, if you have good synergy in working, uh, always go for it. Wonderful. All right.
Yeah. So let's talk again. Maybe you should have some rest now. I'm, I'm glad that you have some
time because I was scared that, you know, you would not want to have a thing to do about this
because of your, of the book that you're doing. And I think that you're, you joined the gym.
So I said, I don't know if Maika has a lot of, have some time, extra time for this or not.
So I was hesitating, but I thought I'll get in touch with you anyway, because I cannot imagine,
uh, doing more projects with other people. Yep. All right. I'll, I'll talk to you again,
uh, sometime soon. Good night, Maika. Great to talk to you today. Good night.
Good night. Have a good night. Have a good day.
