b0269y ctpr
(audio)

So, okay, so. What's really interesting was that I learned how the the sodium is causing a positive spike. The potassium is causing a negative spike and when the potass when the potassium engages that determines whether the spike is going to be it's going to have a high amplitude or a low or a low amplitude or in in what's interesting is that with EEG in the brain every there's a there's there's a power law from the micro firing of neurons to the macro firing of your aus circuits.
00:46
To to to the to dipoles at the super macro scale and so the power law means is the parallel is one over f which I'm sure you've seen before but basically what it means is that the. One over ass means that there is it's about the frequency and it means that that the the there is the the frequency is an amplitudes or inversely proportional so if the frequencies increase amplitude is decreased if frequencies decrease amplitude's increase, right?
01:32
So so I'm reading this in the book rhythms of the brain and I'm hearing him talk about I'm hearing F Scott saying, okay, well basically the the sodium is creating this positive wave and what happens is there's this timing thing where the potassium can either pass in it can can can comes in and it makes it negative now if you tell me now if there is something like a multi vesicle vesicle release that he didn't know about before he talked to me like he was like, he knows about he read about something called.
02:07
Vesicle body which is which is a different research topic that came up with similar but different research topic that he read about a couple years ago and he he originally asked me if that's what I was talking about said no I'm talking about multivitical release so he knows he understands what vegetables are, you know, he's a neuroscientist right and he's he studies the brain we had he hadn't heard this one concept and so he's so he he was saying okay, so if um, More vesicles are being released depending on on the amplitude of the of the of the action potential then then then the story is that what if it's if it's if it's the result of k it must be.
02:54
That there was a delay in when the k started because if. If the multi is the vertical release depends on when k started and then when it what it means is that if k is if the start of k is delayed then that means that the, Then that means that in the terms of timing that means that the the channels the calcium channels are open longer and the calcium channels let let calcium in because there's hardly any calcium in the in the body and of the cell and so the calcium channels are open longer and that means that a much greater signal is gonna it means that the the open longer and because they're longer like a lot a lot more neurotransmitters are gonna.
03:52
Pass through. To through the receptors to the to the posts synaptic circuits, okay now what was interesting was that so so he was telling me like okay so imagine a sack of oil that has a bunch of chemicals in it and this is his his description of of a micro vesicle it's the magic of bubble of oil, okay, no matter he's imagine there's two bubbles of oil and they collide right so they they they, Merge and whatever they have to spill all over the place so it's just imagine that so anyway we're talking about like how these like if if you have more than one sack of oil with a bunch of neurotransmitters in it that Clyde well what's gonna happen is there's a whole lot more material in the area where the synapses are so that means that more material is gonna spread and in more synapses are gonna be reached.
04:59
And I said aha that is a space that's your transmitting spatial information at that point and anyway, it's a long so long story there's a whole there's a whole lot more but I'm like the I'm on the airplane and I'm like combining like,
05:18




06:31
And they saw that when there is some connection from the axons instead of just one they're about 19 connections and they said what's happening to this how why why haven't we seen this before so what's the the function of this 19 connections we should be having seen before so yeah, it leads to a lot of questions which would lead to other questions also and it would help us explore and understand the brain more and whatever theories.
07:05
Whatever they have more.
07:09
And of course today. I talked about the quantum microscope.
07:17


