=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0276y Invisible neurons, how the brain renders everything Coincidence June 2nd 2021
First recorded: 2021-06-03T07:48:22.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/69fad460-3a0f-42c6-a764-f8602c6067e9
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Nero Hexor 2.0, or Nero Hexor 2.0, that's better.
Um, yeah, so, it's quite new, we have two FNIRs, because people can, the blood flow between left and right, depending on which way they're looking.
Upgraded versions will have essential other places, like the kernel headset.
Okay, so he rivers the volcano island to ancient civilizations, ancient tribe that walks through the canyon, also the volcanoes that wiped out entire civilizations.
Just remembering a very specific, just remembering a previous pattern, is just learning to fire again.
It's going to fire form, so it's like its job is to evoke a sequence.
It learns a sequence, and that it books a sequence, it receives, if it receives the aura of a neuron, it's learning a sequence.
And so the neuron is learning a sequence of tenfold spatial patterns, right?
It's able to learn a sequence, because each neuron that's downstream in that sequence, is only going to fire.
Tendrite is only going to fire if it sees a certain pattern, if it reaches a certain pattern, otherwise it's going to throw the pattern away.
Tendrite is only going to fire, it's only going to open a camera, it's going to bring a temporary impact, dissipating impact.
It's like a pattern that beats a few times.
It changes its oscillation, and if an actual change will change in neurons, the amount of information that a neuron receives, it changes.
It changes where, or it changes whether and when it's going to fire.
Is that, uh, no, it's only going to fire, um, if it receives a certain pattern.
It's, uh, like a number, in one sense.
It's a, it's an abstract pattern.
A tenfold, tenfold spatial path, even for all the stuff stored by dendritic recognition.
Dend-, there, the spikes on the dendrite, spikes on the synapses, on the bouton, spikes on the baton.
Um, those spikes from the store, like, um, those, um, I guess they are, I guess synaptic terminals,
that are not connect spikes, that are just hairs, kind of.
What other means is that they are, um, for a specific pattern.
So you have a pattern, okay, so you could have a network of neurons, a neural network of,
and so if there's a sequence that's being played, the sequence will be played by, the, the, the, the,
the step of the sequence will be passed to different neurons, because each neuron will take a timeout after it fires.
Or an integration.
And so, it fires.
And so, if another, if another step of the sequence comes in, it passes from where the first neuron was to the second one,
and that fires.
And then it passes from the second one to the third one, and that fires.
And so on.
Um, and so, um, each neuron takes itself out, and becomes inhibited after firing.
And so if they fire in, like, ten, um, milliseconds, if they fire, like, if each one fires in, like, ten milliseconds,
um, then, then the signal keeps passing, so now the signal is traveling, right?
And so maybe, like, at some point, like, um, it's satisfying.
And then that's how hot.
But it never could be, like, spontaneous rewiring.
So, like, remember how, like, if you learn, if you're playing the game Tetris,
it's like you remember after playing the game for, like, five hours that you start to see Tetris patterns in your head.
Or if you play, if you play the game Tetris for eight hours and then try to sleep,
you might be seeing, like, pictures of Tetris blocks in your vision.
It's because your brain has modified itself to be thinking about Tetris, Tetris blocks.
Right?
That means that your brain is able to modify what patterns it looks for.
And what patterns it detect, uh, renders, and what it then detects.
So your brain is, like, looking, really looking for Tetris blocks, that's why you're seeing them.
Like, so thinking, so it's like, imagine that same neuron.
Imagine that neuron fires in its sequence, okay?
Imagine a new sequence is learned that uses sequences from the first sequence and sequences from the second sequence.
So now what's firing is, let's say that you have the same neuron as a pattern detector.
And it fires when it sees a certain pattern.
But that certain pattern can come from any direction.
Which means that it's gonna fire to learn sequences, like, um, in a sense, like, you can have sequences that are isometric to other sequences.
And so there you'd have, so in that case you would have, like, um, the same pattern, but it would light up, like, somewhere else.
But the other pattern would remember that the second sequence would remember the first sequence.
It's because, um, when that sequence fires, it's transmitting a signal to every other neuron in the brain.
It's like a broadcast, it's like broadcasting, it's like, um, it's exactly, it works exactly the way electrical impedance tomography works.
When a neuron fires, it's just like electrical impedance tomography, and that signal is being, it's being sent everywhere without bias.
It's like, it's gonna go out through all of the, uh, neurotransmitters without bias in all directions.
So the neurotransmitter is gonna fire, and it can be fired from the neuron in all directions.
Okay, but, it does matter what the amplitude of the firing is, based on the reception of K.
So, the amplitude means, uh, means that a neuron can recognize different patterns.
It's, it's a part of the programming thing, like, like Tetris blocks.
Getting a custom of red light, or certain smells.
Getting a custom of any smell.
It, it suggests that, well, maybe a neuron is, uh, able to change, and then it recognizes.
That's, yeah.
A neuron can change pattern.
Oh, wait a second.
The pattern that it recognizes, may be different from the pattern that it transmits.
You see what I'm saying?
So it can look for a certain pattern.
Because it kind of needs to know two steps.
It kind of needs to know the previous pattern, the incoming pattern.
And it's got a transit pattern.
But it could work like a regular neural network, where it can learn to...
So it's doing pattern recognition.
Or one neuron is looking for a specific, one specific pattern.
But, but actually, it could recognize multiple patterns.
And those multiple patterns would be, but each, each one would be like a packet of vesicles.
Because that's all it can transmit, is one, two, is zero, one, two, or three vesicles.
And the vesicles are, like, going to reach more neurons.
So in a sense, it can only transmit, uh, the amplitude, which is one, two, or three.
Zero, which is over zero.
One, zero, one, two, or three.
So it's gonna be firing normally anyways.
Right?
And, but, so what happens is, um, it's gonna have fire with a normal, like, rhythm.
But, and this, this is why it has the ability to, like, the normal rhythm, sort of like, is, when it's not reporting anything.
Right?
But this is like the basis of temporary memory.
Like, it's like, when you see something, you are, you see, when you see something, your, your, uh, your neuron is going to, you know, the sequence of neurons that are firing.
And each neuron in that sequence, uh, which is exactly, um, one millisecond, each neuron in the sequence, and the sequence is exactly one millisecond for each neuron.
So, uh, it's gonna learn a pattern.
It's gonna transmit a slightly different pattern.
It's gonna learn a pattern.
It's like, okay, it could be, I guess a pattern could be a one, two, or three.
It could be a zero, one, two, or three.
Well, the neuron is only gonna recognize it's zero, one, two, or three, let's say.
I got a one, because it's gonna say I got a one, or I got a zero, I got a zero, I got one, I got two, I got three.
So, and that sort of, like, represents, like, quantity.
So it could be, like, that's, like, a pixel.
A representation is, like, it's transparent.
Or it's gray, or it's, like, light gray, or it's dark gray, or it's black.
Zero, one, two, and three.
So three is black.
And zero is, uh, transparent.
Anyway, you have, like, a four digits.
If, like, every neuron could represent four digits.
Right?
Zero, ones, but it's not binary.
It's not binary.
It's like there's four digits, zero, one, two, and three.
But all you need is a sparse representation.
So potentially, but it's a sea of four digits, right?
So potentially, how many patterns can you have?
Zero, one, do you like where to record any pattern that had four, four digits.
Record four-bit patterns.
I don't know, try to find my neural network, and I can encode four, I can record it.
Uh, any pattern that can be converted to four bits.
And it says, but here's the thing.
If I could fire, like, uh, a four, cause it's, like, one, two, three, four.
Right?
Even though it's zero.
But it's, like, zero, two, three.
It's, like, zero, one, two, three.
But, like, okay, so I could, I, I, I know it's a pixel.
And the brightness, right?
Or it could be, or it could represent, um, the volume of the sound.
Is it zero, one, two, three, four?
It's, like, a four degree resolution, right?
But what happens is four, you have four, and then you have, like, you could have 40, right?
So where, one, two, three, four could represent four.
Or it's a zero, oh, one.
Or, actually, you have, you have 30, so 30, yeah.
You have 33, right?
Or you have a 333.
333, right?
Okay, so if it's, like, a base, it's, like, base four, so base two.
Okay, so each slide is, like, 3333333345.
Basically, if you see one to five, and it's, like, each sequence is, like, but it's anything.
Right?
But it's a sequence.
So you could be 5, 5, 5, 5, 5, 5, 5, across the board.
The negative sequence.
Because, okay, so this thing is, like, it's finding a sequence, right?
right, so, like, you'll fly us to 353669, right, or you could have another sequence to 353779.
Now, I think it's like, it could be that, it could be that you have the same round, fine, for, which have-
okay, like, what if you need to play a sequence for a neuron that much part of the sequence is inhibitor,
and another sequence is part of the sequence right there, and normally you'd have this neuron
fired after that one, but it's inhibited because it fired after- because that neuron is part of a
different sequence that comes in a different direction, so let's say the sequence is over here,
and that's the second one, so that's the third one. The sequence is A, B, C, and the sequence is T, B, S,
and because they intersect with B, right, so A, B, C, and T, B, S, they cross over at B, right,
they both have a B, and T, B, S, A, B, C. B is intersection between both, uh, these organizations,
so they cross the B, they sort of the intersection, and each, uh, each one is a vector, 3D space,
so there's the line that goes from A to B to C, a straight line, that's one vector, and then you have
another line, it's like T, B, and S, and the two lines are crossing each other, like forming an X,
right, so they're perpendicular, it looks like an X pattern, so one is A, B, C, and one is T,
and a lot of them are stretched out, I stretched really far, those are five points, okay, so these,
so let's say that you constantly hear the ABS pattern, ABS, and then you go T, B, S, T, B, S, T, B, C,
it's weird that I said ABS, right, so I can wonder if I was inhibited, so my brain switches already to-
that it's like, it's like in some instance it's like the neuron is switching, but it's getting used to
being switched on to, so T, so if B fires, then S fires, so ABC is A fires and B fires and C fires,
TBS is T fires and B fires and S fires, and so if you go back to ABC, you were saying ABS because
I used to, um, C fires, C got used to fire when B fires, right, so I was getting ratted to a B that was
ratted to an S and wasn't going to a C, it's like, oh wait, no, wait a second, so that to me indicates that,
yeah, so, okay, so it indicates one is you can have multiple neurons that respond to the letter S,
okay, and that would have once inhibited the neurosequence control to a different, uh,
oh, I recognize S, right, so you can have a whole bunch of guys, I recognize S, I recognize S,
I recognize S, I recognize S, and so he's representing an oscillation, I recognize S, and so it's just,
yeah, it's like they're, uh, it's like they're all affirming the same thing, like they're all
recognizing the same thing, uh, so a sequence isn't learned by one neuron, it's learned by, uh, a group,
but like, okay, but so like, so what happens is, um, a neuron fires and then its oscillation begins to
match the group's oscillation, but that's not entirely correct, entirely correct, because, um,
there's actually this, uh, well, it looks like the first is merging into the second one perfectly,
but actually there's a math equation happening, because, um, as the first one is, it's, they're,
they're both merging to each other, so like, um, the overall mass is increasing, right,
because one thing merged into something else, I guess the overall mass is increasing,
and two, um, it's kind of like, um, it's, it's, it changes the pace of the overall oscillation to the
tiny amount, right, so if you have, like, um, so if you have, like, a lot, if you have a lot of
inhibition, the signal can get weaker, the collective signal, it's like slowing the signal down,
changing the pace of what I find, it could be like, yeah, it could be sliding the pace,
like, let's say that it's gonna fire, so the idea is it fires, uh, every five miloseconds,
wait, it fires, and it fires every five miloseconds, okay, so it's gonna fire anyways,
because it's gonna fire anyways, it has the ability to just throw out the pattern by not responding,
firing at the regular time is the zero that's being transmitted, well, uh, if it fires faster,
say if it fires in one zero, if it fires faster, then, so normally there's, say it's zero, it's like,
okay, it's gonna, it's in a zero state, and it's gonna go to a one state, or two state, or three state,
right, so what happens is, um, if it fires out of sequence, making a difference, it fires out of
sequence, right, so you get the same pattern over and over again, there's no information,
because it's just, it's just like, yeah, it has the same pattern, so you don't make, so it's transparent,
so you have a transparent field, those are like, the pixels of the transfer happens is, um, when a,
when you see something, a transparent field, you see, like, um, where it's brightest, you see,
those are the numbers that are, like, okay, they hold you in the dark, and if you see, like,
where the screen is, like, super bright, okay, that, those are, um, areas where there are 3D,
and there's other shapes, right, and, but it's like, you have this canvas, it's 3D canvas,
and neurons are firing, to represent all the patterns in the room, all the sequences,
because the patterns are just sequences, uh, so the patterns that you see are of neurons that are
firing, and so there's two things, one is, is, is, it's a pattern, it's a sequence, but it's a sequence
recognizer, it recognizes a four-digit sequence, you could also recognize a sequence of four-digit sequences,
I could recognize entire sequences, but each sequence is four sequences,
so I can recognize an unlimited number of sequences, but only, but only, like, um,
but the four-digit sequence is the, uh, is the limit of how many different sequences it can,
okay, so it's four, no, it's a four-bit sequence, so each sequence in the sequence is four bits,
each plate, so each plate, so each plate, imagine a stack of plates, each plate is four bits,
but it can remember the whole stack of plates, so we're going to remember a complex pattern,
temporal patterns, with the hairs in the end, by increasing those hairs, whether they're synapses,
or they're just hairs, I mean, uh, yeah, are they spikes, or are they just hairs, just spikes,
well, but anyway, like, they're going to increase or decrease constantly, so they appear and disappear,
right, they're going to connect and disconnect constantly, and that's short-term,
um, let's read it, let's read it, um, different patterns become encoded by what's there, so it's
remember it's looking for, it's adjusting in real time to, to learn short-term patterns, learning
short-term patterns, so, like, it learns a pattern, and then it gets reliable about repeating that
pattern in the correct sequence, because I say you move, uh, say you're looking west, and then now
you're looking right, so now, the pattern that you, the age of, the age of, the age of fire,
needs to be a different sequence, and so the idea is that, um, like a pixel, it's like a pixel,
a pixel is, like, representing, uh, an image, a color, and an image, right, so you have, like,
this is four bits, but it's a sequence of four bits, so it's a sequence of four bits,
which means that, um, it's sequence memory, but the sequences are handled by, uh,
known as firing in succession, firing or not firing in succession, with different amplitudes,
you can have, uh, one, uh, look for a sequence, and then fire to be part of a sequence, and then,
and then I see that it's changing the oscillation of, uh, so firing, so it's like you have all,
it's like you have a group of neurons, and they're all firing together in a pattern, like a whale,
all doing the same exact thing, and they're firing at regular intervals, so they're all
represented in the same exact thing, but they could all be looking for different things, so,
like detectors, they're detecting specific patterns, and they're each capable of changing what they're
detecting, so that means that they can, so that each one, so it's like each node is a neural network,
and it's doing, like, a detection of patterns, of sequences, and then it's transmitting
a part of a sequence, the part of a sequence that represents a large sequence, and press a large
sequence into, uh, a symbol, or a sequence, so if it's like, yeah, it's like if I can learn a four
dimensional sequence, zero, one, two, or three, and then I can learn a sequence of four dimensional
sequences, zero, one, two, three, or three, two, one, zero, or two, three, two, three, zero, one, two,
two, three, three, two, one, zero, or two, three, two, three, one, two, two, so if you have all those sequences,
zero, one, two, three, three, two, one, two, three, two, three, zero, one, two, two, so if you have all
those sequences, right, the idea is that you can have a neuron can detect any combination of
any sequence for, with four bits, and I'm gonna fire zero, or one, or two, or three, and I'm gonna fire
zero, one, two, three, so the default is fire zero, so in a second, in a way, it's kind of like three bits,
but it's like, okay, I'm not gonna be invisible, so like imagine that, like, if you have, if you look,
if you see a fan, okay, where the fan is, where, like, the color in your, in your eyes are different,
versus the background, the background is lighter, the fan area is darker, I know that there's fans
there, it's a darker area, it's a darker area, it's a darker area, I can see the shape of the fan,
the sequence of darker areas, it's the same, which is different from the wall, that it's contrasted from,
and like, imagine that darker area is a pixel that's lighting up in a 3D volume, and imagine that's
just a transparent area between here, between where my nose is at, and the fan, okay,
this is like a transparent area, and imagine that space was not empty, but in fact, it was filled
with stars, you know, it was filled with neurons, and they're all managing to be invisible, because
they're firing nothing, and anything that's firing are the neurons that represent that, um, that dark
area that's a fan, and the wall behind it, but everything in between, everything in between,
the wall, all the empty space, those are the neurons that are not firing, but actually,
they are firing, so when they're not firing, they're firing at the regular tonic rate,
which makes them invisible, so if they're firing at the normal rate, they're invisible,
it's like, yeah, they're going to fire every 10 milliseconds, okay, let's say it's tonic firing,
I don't know how often, it's just going to fire at a regular interval, because it's a regular interval,
it's invisible, now what happens is, if certain patterns, if certain sequences are recognized,
a certain sequence of neurons are going to fire, and they're going to fire, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
7, 8, okay, and you're going to have neurons that recognize parts of that sequence, but I guess it
could be any, I guess each neuron could detect any part of a sequence that's 4 bits per interval,
so yeah, so you could, so a neuron could fire, so if I'm, if I'm an observer neuron, right,
I could fire if I see a 1, a 2, a 3, or a 4, fire if I see a 2, a 1, or a 0, it doesn't, I feel like,
it, I feel like I'm saying, it doesn't have to be specific, okay, the downstream neuron,
like each downstream neuron, is fire, is doing like a volumetric pixel, how dark, how transparent,
is it transparent, or is it, like, imagine all the noise in between, imagine that you have,
like a lot of noise, imagine, so like, see, just like stare, for the longest time, like to see,
and now you, like, you eventually start to see noise everywhere, right, where the fan sort of
becomes, like, invisible, and you just see, like, you just, like, stare at the ceiling,
so imagine the noise, like, you begin to see noise everywhere, and the fan becomes invisible,
you start to see, like, you sort of trip out, like, wait, oh, and the fan's invisible, the fans become
invisible, it's because it's, um, the neurons are represented are becoming inhibited,
because they're firing, they become inhibited, so it's like, it's like, the idea is that, um,
and then it starts, and nothing new is happening, so then it becomes invisible, it's like, you forget
about it, anything that is firing at a regular, uh, tonic rate, if it's firing at a regular rate,
it's going to become invisible to you, but because what happens is, what you're seeing is the difference,
what you're seeing is, like, what you're seeing is, like, you're seeing, like, in the firing rate,
and the change deviates from zero, so it's like, okay, you're seeing a change in, you know,
to two or three, which is, yeah, it's even, uh, registered a three, like, a three, okay,
so now three just, like, affects more neurons, so more neurons see a pattern, see a part of a pattern,
like, they're detecting part of a pattern, oh, I detected some kind, so it's like, oh,
detected something, a three, so, like, there's a lot of activity happening, where is this, okay,
imagine that, imagine each of you with, like, an eye, okay, and what happens is, if you see a lot,
if you see a lot, it's like, what happens is, now it gets like an eye, and everything lights up,
and everything lights up, let's say that, like, you have a whole bunch of activations at the same
time, you can fire at the regular rate, and just ignore that pattern, or that pattern can cause
you to fire a one, a two, or a three magnitude response, that's like, okay, it's like, what's
the magnitude response, like, oh, or whoa, like, yeah, it's the magnitude response, right, one, two,
three different levels, or nothing, this is, so you have, like, a whole bunch of downstream
ranches, like a tree, downstream ranches, they're all connected to different things,
so, it's kind of like, each one is like an eye, it's only going to say, like, a different, you know,
sort of expression, like, whoa, like, whoa, like, what, it's only going to say a different expression,
based upon what it's seeing, light up, okay, so it's only going to light up, or it's, like,
a certain, like, like a movie screen, right, it's like, there's four, so it's either completely dark,
or it's like, yeah, it's like a gradient of, you know, one's, is a little, it's dark,
but a little lighter, and, and two is much lighter, and then three is, like, much, much lighter,
and it could be either, it could be either contrast, it could be either going, it could
be going from, like, dark or dark to light, it doesn't matter, so it's like, it can represent
shades of gray, or different colors in the spectrum, or different sound amplitudes,
it's a four-dimensional, and then it's like a blind detector, it's like an edge detector,
or a color detector, and you have, if you have, um, that's that moment, that's something,
okay, bubble edge detections become a picture at a higher level, that, at a higher level, you have
neurons representing features, what's happening is that the complexity of the feature is represented
by the lower level neurons, and recognized, and it reduced to where at a higher level, a higher level
neuron is only going to fly when certain high level features are detected, high level sequence
patterns are detected, that's how, like, okay, so the lowest level is doing simple stuff, so it's like
you, it's like you have the hierarchy of detected patterns, and the patterns can, uh, happen to any
part of the image, so you can have light and dark happen anywhere, it's literally rendering, rendering
what you're seeing, uh, in terms of, in terms of, um, different neurons flying, representing different
parts of your light field, as you move your head, you can see that was fine, it's totally different, it's totally,
like, imagine if your whole brain is processing your whole scene, your whole visual cortex is processing
everything you're seeing at this moment, this, in a second, as this moment changes, it's processing
something else instead, all the whole patterns are just predicted, and they're not updated unless
there's some sort of change, a change happens only when you move your head, a change only happens over
time, so that's how sequence is, that's another way sequence is going to be like over time, is that the
internal patterns of the brain are changing over time, as you move your head around, so as you move your head
around, you move your whole head, and something is something that wasn't in your vision, you're not in
your vision, left, or something to your right, something like, something to your left, it could be a
box, let's say you see a box, and the box is only in your vision if you're looking to the left, you don't
see the box on your left, you don't see the box on your right, so the box is on your left, right?
So in the box on your left, you have neurons in a 3D space that are representing that box,
what it looks like, all the properties of the box, what it's made out of, is it plastic, is it
metal, is it paper, what kind of box is it, and so you have neurons representing those materials,
with those that are in the visual cortex, so then you've got the sensory neuron system, and you've got
the prefrontal cortex, the primary sensory input, uh, cortices, and, and then the pretty
amount of prefrontal cortex, so I think of the brain is just like four areas, there's the audio
cortex, the visual cortex, the somatosensory cortex, and then the prefrontal cortex, so the three primary
sensory areas, and then the prefrontal cortex, and the prefrontal cortex is, uh, it's every area that
is an interneuron area, it's not directly connected to incoming senses, and so it's all like interneuron,
it's all like an inhibitory area. What's interesting is that there is, um,
similarity in all areas of cortices, but information only travels to the bottom layers
of the, um, primary sensory cortex, the visual cortex, the audio cortex, somatosensory cortex,
and the visual cortex, and the audio cortex, visual cortex, that's right. So what is going to the bottom of
the prefrontal cortex? What's the primary thing that goes there? Because if it's not going,
if it's not, is it connected, is it still connected to the thalamus? Because even if there's no,
yeah, so that would be interesting, okay, so I need to know that, um, because like the primary
sensory cortices are all connected to the thalamus, the thalamus is where the information comes from.
So it goes to, from your incoming senses, from your eyes, to the thalamus, before it goes to your,
your, um, visual cortex, right? It travels a certain path, from the eyes, along the optic nerve,
to the thalamus, and then you see the back of your head, to the, to your occipital lobes,
and then up the parietal lobes. That's how vision, vision comes in, from your eyes, through the thalamus.
Now, supposedly, nose comes in, the gusatory comes in through five parts, and the fifth part goes to the thalamus.
So the eyes go to the thalamus, the fifth part of the gusatory, or smell, goes to the thalamus,
the other four go to different parts of your brain directly. The audio cortex comes in and
hits your old brain first, and then travels up.
It goes to the thalamus first, before hitting the neocortex. And I'm not sure where the lowest point of
sound comes in at. So it comes into the old brain, but it comes in through the thalamus specifically,
before going to the cortex, to the audio cortex. It would sound as like registered in layers,
with the stronger sounds at the neocortex of like different frequencies. And so yeah, it's this idea
of the brain is like all these different frequencies, detecting different frequencies,
and playing back different frequencies on a macroscale, different summations of information,
it's different frequency patterns. So I pass on different frequency patterns to other people.
The fact of speaking, different frequency patterns are being transmitted in each stage of a word being
spoken, in each step of a word being spoken, in each pronunciation of any word to be spoken.
And those are sequences that are represented by different neurons firing. So when a neuron fires,
you can have any A, any neuron could represent A, or a part of A, any neuron could represent a part of A,
or a part of A. It's like pixels. They're so small that any neuron could represent A, or B, or C,
A, or B, or C could be represented anywhere in the cortex. It could be represented on your far left,
it could be an A, it could be A on your far right. The pattern of A could be anywhere in your mind.
So any part of your brain could recognize A. All parts of your mind could recognize A. You could imagine
that your whole reality is just made out of A's. Imagine your whole reality is just made out of B's.
Can you imagine B's everywhere? You could imagine C's everywhere. A, B, C's. You could imagine T's
everywhere. Can you imagine B's everywhere? You could imagine C's, S's everywhere.
B is wired to C for a second, and I need to change, um, S is everywhere, C is everywhere,
S is everywhere, you have A, B, C, you have T, B, S, A, B, C, C everywhere, T everywhere,
B everywhere, S is everywhere, A everywhere, B everywhere, C everywhere, so you can recognize
like, um, wires everywhere, it's basically, it's like, it's like, imagine, like every part of your
visual cortex is imagining the letter A, every part of your cortex is imagining letter B, you're
just imagining that letter B is everywhere, okay, like little letter Bs, you can have large
that letter Bs also, you have a mixture of little and big, and you can have letter Bs of every size,
so now you're filling up your entire space with letter Bs of different sizes,
and they're moving at different speeds, some are fast, some are slow, so you have every speed
everywhere, you have fast Bs everywhere, and you have slow, uh, large Bs everywhere, and so the
fast Bs are whizzing by like wind, and the slow Bs are like giant statues, but they're moving, and then
they're moving slowly, but they're giant, and they're overlapping, so you know, it's like, there's like a,
the foot of a statue is in every, uh, in every place where there's an A, and so you have like
a thousand overlapping statues, and they're all massive, but there's just as many statues as there
are, microscopic A's, because everywhere every A is, that's where the foot of a new statue is
beginning, that's where the toe of a new statue is beginning, wherever your A is, so you have
overlapping images, so your entire space is filled up with giant statues that are overlapping,
as to have like one, each space has its own toe that represents an entire, part of an entire statue
statue, that's overlapping with other statues. Okay, so, um, yeah, it's kind of like, okay, so we've got a
way to represent, um, visual stuff, but also audio sequences, temporal and spatial audio sequences,
and specifically, it's going to be temporal relative to, temporal, like a playstyle, like a
reference frame, that's like a temporal playstyle representation, also, it's also possible to have
like abstract pattern representation, but the abstract pattern representation would, um,
still have a four-dimensional representation, it would still make use of the visual cortex,
and, and, and that, um, would be the, there's the same tissue, like, yeah, because you have any,
any part of your brain could represent what that pattern means, okay, so it's like, so you could have,
like, a one-two-three pattern here in the visual cortex, and that one-two-three pattern,
or it might be zero, one-two-three, and it might be, it's, it's not just, it's not just that, it's like,
it might be, like, that one-two-three pattern could represent, there could be, uh, ten one-two-three patterns,
there could be a million one-two-three patterns, and they could, they could be, like, recognized,
they could be recognized, uh, by enough upstream neurons of those patterns, that would, like, each,
each, um, upstream neuron would recognize the same patterns as occurring in different places, right,
and so, like, uh, those patterns could represent a texture, right, like, a texture could be, like,
a consistent pattern over a, over a space, and you'd have many different neurons would be representing,
like, the same image, and so you'd have something at a higher level that recognizes a pattern among
patterns, and then you have a higher level, you have a pattern among patterns among patterns,
and so you have patterns of patterns, and patterns of patterns of patterns, and levels of levels of
patterns, right, to infinity, and so you could have higher level patterns that are isomorphic,
in the visual cortex, to, um, a high level pattern in audio cortex, and by isomorphic, I mean that
there's, there could be high level similarities that are, that don't exist at the low level,
and high level similarities are when you find a concept, the concept isn't, it's like the concept of a
sequence, it's a higher level concept, it doesn't exist at the lowest level, because it's a sequence of
concepts, and so you could have, you could have sequences detected at the lowest level, and they are,
but in a sense, there are pieces of sequences that are detected, and so the brain is putting together
pieces of sequences of content, in order to make larger sequences of content, you could have, you
could have the sound of a rhinoceros, and it could happen in a sequence, a horn, and then an animal,
a horn sound, and then an animal sound, like a rhinoceros, you could have a horn sound,
an animal sound, and an animal sound, and it's a sequence of sounds, and they're represented,
they're sequences of content, and they're represented by, um, groups of neurons that are all detecting,
they're all detecting the same pattern, they're all firing at the same pattern,
because they're all firing the same pattern, there's a high level pattern detection that happens,
and it's, uh, and so what happens is, the recognition of a pattern is the rendering of that pattern,
because that pattern exists to the mind, the second is recognized, because recognition
involves a physical transformation, like recognition is like, oh, I'm firing at a different rate than the
rate I was firing, I was invisible before, because I was firing at a tonic rate, my rate of firing changed,
and now I'm visible, and I'm just visible at different rates, I'm visible a lot, I'm visible a little,
I'm visible at an accent, and so it could be like a gray scale, I guess, but you have like, um,
but there's, it's like, uh, the reason it's like a color scale is because a high level pattern detection
detection is the, is the association of lower level pattern detections, so a high level pattern detection
becomes, becomes defined as a vector, becomes encoded in a vector of 0, 1, 2, or 3,
and that could represent a high level pattern, that could represent, um, sequence that fired of, of other vectors,
that could represent a, a learned sequence of other vectors, so those other vectors could represent
a more complex image, because the first, well, the first vector is just one image,
that one image represents that all those images have been seen, so it's like, okay, what has been seen
is stored in images in the neurons I haven't seen, I've seen it, and the reduction of what that is,
is that is a neuron that represents all those other neurons, so it could, it could be that one neuron
is representing to every upstream neuron, I mean every downstream neuron, it could be that, okay,
so like, so the incoming sensory neuron, and there's the interneuron, and the incoming sensory neuron
neuron is the downstream neuron, and the intersensory neuron is upstream neuron, so it goes from
outside the brain to the downstream neuron first, which is the sensory input neuron, and it goes to
the intern neuron, which doesn't, which isn't connected to the sensory input, okay, and the sensory input is
going to be inhibiting a lot, or it's going to be exciting, so the intern neuron is going to be either
inhibiting or exciting, but most of it is inhibition, so we'll have oscillating signals,
and it will fire to inhibit, so they're not going to be cascading around the whole brain,
with endless noise, it's kind of like, they'll be firing at a rate in which the brain is able to
make sense of space, so the tonic firing rate will be invisible, but the rest of the firing will provide
all of the substance of space, all the colors, all the sounds, all the lights, all the positions,
all the properties that you can visualize, but more to the point, because the cortex is acting today,
and you have all the parts of information that you can hear, will be rendered by the audio cortex,
but they're correlated concepts, high level patterns, high level concepts, so the concept is a high level pattern,
basically, the concept is a high level pattern, but it represents something that was seen at lower levels,
so you can have lower levels, like the lowest levels, okay, they're recognizing just parts of the pattern,
and it's only a high, it's only a high level in the cortex that represents a much larger pattern,
but patterns could be really complex, and so with two layers, you could have most high level patterns
could be detected, but not just, not just patterns, but sequences, so movies of patterns,
could all be detected, and so like, objects could be detected, and actually, so, so they would be
detected first, and just the first layer of neurons that fire in response to the light,
that's the first detection, and then if you go back, the connected neurons would represent
larger detectors, and the larger you go back in layers, visual one cortex, visual two cortex,
all the way up to visual six cortex, the theory that's supposed to be,
each layer is supposed to be representing much larger detections, much larger image detections,
and sequences of image detections, sequences, that idea is, but maybe, like, once you get to about two
layers, then, you know, you should pretty much, I mean, once you get to layer two, so there's like,
there's the, there's the detection layers in the eye, and then there's the visual cortex,
and then there's the thalamus, and then there's the visual, then there's the visual cortex,
like, okay, but it's like, what if everything is getting detected in the first two layers,
what if all the images are like, because you already, you actually come through four layers,
you come through the ganglia, you've gone through the, um, the fovea,
that's through the retina, you've gone through different layers in the eye, you've gone along the
object curves, you've gone through the thalamus, and you've gone along the, uh, the connections
from the thalamus all the way to the abs of the lobes, and then you're traveling to the different layers,
you're traveling to, uh, from V1, V2, V3, and 4, to V5, and 6, and in some cases,
those patterns are traveling all over the brain, just like, uh, electro, like EEG, electro,
and, uh, I mean, just like, um, E-I-G, E-I-T, E-I-T is electrical and penis tomography.
See, the thing is, like, um, when you fire an electrode, you can't direct it, so it's just gonna go
everywhere, but the timing of when the rest of the neurons receive that signal is in, is, uh, an image,
it's like an image, right? So, a neuron could fire, and the signal's gonna travel to all neurons at
different rates. It's being slowed down by the tissue. It travels through different tissue at different
rates. So you could have neurons that are just detecting internal patterns. So you have, yeah,
you'd have sequences of brain waves firing, and then, uh, there's regular brain waves,
and because they're firing regularly, they become usable. But when a brain wave is disrupted,
it fires out of sequence. That is going to be a signal to all of the neurons. Wait a second,
something changed. So it becomes a pixel for that moment. It becomes a pixel for the entire brain,
though. Because, um, it actually travels everywhere, but it can help, it travels everywhere,
but it gets, it gets inhibited, right? So it's like neurons are going to be tuning out stuff that,
that they're not interested in, right? They're going to do brain fire zero a bunch of times.
They're not going to change the firing property, right? But if they detect something that's unusual,
that's not expected. So they could be, say they're firing at a regular one or a regular two.
Oops. Let's say a neuron is firing at a two regularly. That two is going to be invisible.
It's only if, um, only if it stops recognizing two. All right, or let's say that, let's say it's
invisible. It's invisible in the context of that. Um, it, it's visible as soon as it fires something
different. What happens is this visibility changes because this oscillation is going to match
the neurons that it's firing with, but it's going to subtly change those, that, those mass neurons.
Um, you won't really see a change with one neuron because it's going to be like, but if you had like
a hundred billion neurons, they were all like, they all like were triggered and firing in a way that
caused the whole brain to notice because they were, um, they were all sort of, and that the whole
brain doesn't recognize it. So it's not conscious. It's like the pattern may happen and the brain
doesn't recognize because the brain is choosing not to react. It might be recognized. So, so it's
like, it's only recognizing, it's only, it's only being set up to recognize certain patterns. And, um,
the way it manages not recognizing is by firing in a, in a, in a, in a talk, in a talk way.
But if it changes its firing rate, then it has to recognize something. But as soon as it recognizes
something, it's going to be drawn back into not recognizing things. So by its nature, it's going to
reach back to our oscillations by nature. It's like, if it's an edge of sketch, it is being shaken. So you
can like draw a line on edge of sketch. If you shake it, it does, the sketch disappears. And so it's
like, it recognizes something, but that recognition, what it recognizes begins to fade right away.
First of all, the sequence begins to fade right away. And so it begins to clear out. And it's
clearing out because it's making space for the next thing to be recognized.
And so you can have a mind over time, where your mind is, it's recognizing sequences over time.
But each sequence is like a frame of time. And sequences like there's like, at least at least a
thousand frames, uh, per second of time. Oh, it's like, it's recognizing a thousand frames per
sequence of time per second, a thousand frames per second. So it's like, I thought each frame is a
millisecond. That might just be, that might just be represented by, so it could, I guess it could
compress information by representing different information as being part of a different scale
of information. So it's like when, when the number four represents four million, represents four million
people. Uh, let's do 40 million people, let's imagine 400 million people. Let's imagine 400 billion
million people. Let's imagine four trillion people. Let's imagine four decetallion people.
let's imagine 4 billion decetillion
4 billion decetillion
people
let's imagine a trillion
trillion people
on the planet earth
let's imagine that there's over a trillion
trillion people and they're all in this space
with you right now overlapping
just separated at a time and not by each of their toes
so they're not
exactly the same space
they're just slightly apart
and there's a trillion trillion of them
and you're not
you're not going to imagine
the literal visualization of trillion
just say this
because the idea here is that
you could
but
the idea is that
any magnitude
of information could be
represented by having
representations behind other
representations
so any representation
it could
so
the human brain could have any representation
represented
by any part of the brain
anywhere
but
what's going to happen is that
if you get
a high level representation
that could happen anywhere in the brain
this may be represented by interneurons
well the high level representation
if you play it in the audio cortex
it's going to
it's going to sound like music
and if you play that
high level representation
in the visual cortex
it's going to
it's going to be made out of a pattern of light
if you play a high level
presentation
in the
uh
uh
uh
goose tori
cordage
the um
if it's going to sound like music
if you play it
the high level
a representation of the visual cortex
it's going to
it's going to
um
feel
like a pattern
that you're feeling
or smell
like a pattern you're smelling
so it could be even like
emotion
even
yeah
so it could
there could be a visual representation
of emotion
but the idea is that
they are
that um
the lower parts of your brain
are also representing
so imagine that
the whole
neocortex
was like a screen
for the thalamus
just like
like a whole bunch
of downstream neurons
are the screen
for
upstream neurons
but
they're
they're each the screen
for a different upstream neuron
so it looks like
so it looks like
there's many upstream neurons
but
each one
has its own
pyramid
that's
summing up
its own information
detecting its own information
from all the downstream neurons
that it's connected to
so each one
is a pyramid
but then
so that means
that each one
is connected
to each one
as far as it can reach
right
they're all connected
to each other
as many as they can reach
so like
there's physical connections
I'm gonna try to reach
as many as I can
and
it's like
yeah
let me send all my senses
out
right
so the idea is that
it's just going to
sense pattern
from everything
that it's connected to
it's trying to connect
as much as possible
okay
and then it's going to
transmit stuff sometimes
it's going to transmit stuff
so
that means
neurotransmitters
and transmit
neurotransmitters
sometimes
but the
the key idea
is that
it's not just going to
transmit
it doesn't transmit
a
in terms of like
it doesn't have a symbol
to transmit
what it has
is
how much
how many upstream neurons
it's going to affect
is it going to affect
one downstream neuron
two downstream neurons
three downstream neurons
or four
or it's more like
maybe it's going to affect
30
or
60
or
90
or 120 neurons
maybe it's like a huge multiple
okay
but
it doesn't have
okay
but it's going to be
transmitting that
that signal
which is going to become
part of a
sequence
it's changed a sequence
and a sequence of symbols
so it's like
if you're playing a piano song
and one
one note is
off
do do do do do
because that one sequence changed
and it changed the piano sequence
it's normally
do do do do do
do do do do
do do do
do do do
do do do do
it's like that one note
is messed up
and
um
so that represents
that one note
that's changed
so you have the notes
and the notes that
if it's
do do do do
do do do
do do do do
do do do do
like i imagine
like maybe if you heard
the same beat over
and over again
it would
become kind of
like
um
transparent
or less noticeable
or you just sort of
tune it out
you tune out
you stop hearing
after a while
didn't just fade
to the background depending on how disruptive it was
your mind
would focus on other stuff
and maybe
you'd remember it but the more consistent
it is in your environment
like what we're seeing is
there's a whole bunch of blood vessels in front of the eyes
and the idea
is because they're so
they're there consistently
they're always there
then they're rendered as
transparent
because there's such a consistent pattern
the only patterns that are rendered
that are not transparent are the ones
that are firing
at unexpected rates
because it's unexpected
it becomes a
it becomes detected by
you know a network
it's an unexpected coincidence
an unexpected
it's not a coincidence
it's an incidence
it's an unexpected incidence
it's an incidence detector
this is interesting because
coincidence is
when you have a lot of
a lot of things firing at the same time
a coincidence
begets an instance
so a coincidence
is represented by an instance
okay
and then
the new instance
becomes part of
another coincidence
so
so you have
sequences of instances
are coincidences
sequences of instances
are coincidences
sequences of instances
sequences of instances
are songs
sequences of instances
sequences of instances
are songs
but the songs are
the songs are at the root
coincidences
but they're also patterns
in the coincidences
so coincidences of patterns
become sequences
coincidences of patterns
become sequences
yeah
coincidences of patterns
so the pattern is
the pattern is
the coincidence
the pattern is made up
of coincidences
detected coincidences
detected coincidences
so all types of patterns
are made up of
detected coincidences
but those coincidences
can be simultaneous
or they can be
sequential
simultaneous
or sequential
patterns
and so you can have
a pattern that's recognized
that is
temporal and spatial
so that means
you could have a different
temporal pattern
like a texture
also come with
a spatial pattern
so temporal and spatial patterns
so that's like a
four dimensional movie
right
it's like where you see
a character
and you can tell
it's the same character
even though it's a
different temporal pattern
in each frame
it's a different character
but
it's a different
it's a different character
it's a different shape
in each frame
but you connect
all the shapes together
and you know like
all these
all these pixels
belong together
they're all part of
the same character
that's changing over time
right
so you're tracking
the body
and all the neurons
they all have
there's all similarities
and there's all like
they're all part of
the same sequence
right
they're being recognized
as part of the same sequence
because there's a
higher level neuron
that's recognizing
that all these
lower level neurons
are actually representing
the same object
so where is
the self-representation
well
the self-representation
is like
is in two places
in a sense
it's
it's actually
in two places
but it's like
when all
it's like when both places
fire at the same time
it's like when
the
the neuron
that represents
the pattern
that was detected
is firing
at the same time
that
the neurons
that detect
the pattern
are firing
well in a sense
it should be
slightly
right after
but it's like
yeah
this was
a cat
so this is
something that
so this is
the cat was represented
by the low level neurons
and a higher upstream neuron
higher upstream neurons
also recognize the cat
several of them
recognize the cat
right
and maybe
they recognized
the cat
from slightly
different perspectives
right
each one of them
represented a different
perspective on that cat
sort of like
but the perspective
that you see
is the perspective
that has the most votes
so it's like
your perspective
is made of
individual perspectives
voting on which
ones are right
so yeah
so it's like
every
reality is a fractal
so it's like
seeing the whole
fractal room
is also made of
like fractal rooms
it's like saying
the whole
holographic room
is made of
holographic rooms
so let's say
that we have
a holodeck
every point in the
holodeck
is a pixel
volumetric pixel
so every point
in the holodeck
is capable
of representing
a 3d space
a volumetric pixel
every point in the
holodeck
is capable
of representing
a 3d space
so every point
in the brain
is capable
of representing
a 3d space
and all the
parts of the brain
are capable
of representing
3d space
every neuron
is capable
of representing
a 3d space
that represents
other neurons
so every neuron
is capable
of representing
other neurons
so every word
of saying
is like
a neural network
like a neuron
can represent
many neurons
that fired
a specific pattern
of neurons
that fired
or can represent
nothing
nothing
no
no
nothing fired
so either
a neuron
can represent
a specific
pattern
or not
represent
a specific
pattern
because a
neuron
a specific pattern
could be very complex. We're still talking, like, lines and edges. There's a definite,
there's a definition, right? Lines and edges. This is getting, you know, something at a higher
level can be reduced to, um, 0, 1, 2, or 3 for each neuron. We have many neurons that are measuring
the 0, 1, 2, or 3s, and they all get, like, they all, like, the lower level representation
was the detection and the rendering, because they all want to know if they're going to
fire again, right? And so maybe, if, if several of them fire, and you have the, you have a
whole bunch of neurons that fired when they all fired, that start to get, they start to
get received energy, and so they start to get turned on, and they're predicting, all
the whole thing is going to fire. Like, you've got a whole bunch of neurons that fire when
the whole thing fires, and they're predicting that they're about to fire. Let's say everything
else is predicting that it's about to fire. Let's say those things on every neuron. So
every neuron is predicting it's about to fire. Like, oh, all these fires, all this, we've got
this sequence that goes through here. What we're going to have, like, at every stage, we're
going to have, like, oh, we're all going to predict that firing is going to happen soon.
And then, at some level, that, like, sequence is reduced, the sequence of, of, you know, 0,
1, 2, 3 is reduced to a 0, 1, 2, or 3, in terms of, like, something else interpreting it.
So maybe if we have, like, if something fires, but then nothing fires, well, what happens?
Maybe it continues to pass down. This virus continues to pass down and travels through the entire, through
the whole brain. Right? And it will fire, it will pass through transparently. Well, in this
case of, the case of, the case of neurons that it's oscillating with, they actually re-entrain
it. So maybe they're all receiving the signal that it's receiving and it's causing them to
respond. So they're sending some, maybe they're sending something back, and it's an electrical
response. And it's causing it, that one neuron that's not oscillating at the same rate, to
oscillate at the same rate, and eventually become invisible.
So that's all.
