b0277y ctpr
(audio transcription needs fixin)
Explaining the brain to Dad Neurons Spikes Dendrite

00:01
Okay. So I'm recording but I'm recording because I want to capture myself. You create it talk as well. I'm just it's just an audio recording but I'll get it look at this this comes with my my Google phone everything. I say is transcribed instantly everything you say is transparency.

00:23
Go ahead and say something. What would I want to say something isn't that cool?

00:34
It's really useful so if you ever raise some session you don't just have an audio recording of it but it makes notes for you right so that's extremely useful if you like if you've ever liked, you know wanted to get if you ever got stoned and thought you had a great conversation, but you weren't sure it was great.

00:54
Well you have a transcript later and I don't have to pay anybody for this transcript so I can play my old audio interviews and it will transcribe them for me. That's pretty good so so I've been reading some books let me show you some neuroscience books. There's just book called my Kindle.

01:20
Let's go to. Library rhythms of the brain rhythms of the brain, mm-hmm and the brain from inside out. And.

01:42
This they're both made they both of these books are from the same author. But he's talking about brain oss layers and I read I read the book. I'm like learning so much, but like I already have the thing is look. I have a I have a hypothesis about how the brain works.

02:00
And I've I'm reading the best brains in the world and none of them are contradicting my hypothesis, they're just enriching my hypothesis, so I think my hypothesis is correct. And the more I read the richer it gets because they're not there's nothing that I'm reading, that's. I guess I'm repeating myself there's nothing that I'm reading that's contradicting what I think is true.

02:29
But in one instance let's see on one. Yeah.

02:46
So no so I've had a hypothesis about how the brain works for several years.

03:02
But so like for for example like so I wrote this paper. I mean, I wrote I'm not a paper but I wrote an article called. Can find it.

03:18
VRMA.

03:28
Okay server I wrote an article called synaptic unreliability a foundational concept. That's found in deep learning and in computer science has been undermined by a math prof that shows that MVR multivasicular release is widespread in neocortical synapses. So the concept of synaptic unreliability. That is a foundation for computational neuroscience by timing models and deepen our networks it's fundamentally.

04:01
Undermined by MVR multivacular release. Here's why so what it is, it's like.

04:13
Synaptic unreliable is. About the amount of information that is transmitted by swiping neurons. And what it's suggest is that synapses in a neuron you see you notice synapses. I synapses the connection between two neurons, yeah. So this is fire, they're sending information. Well there well they're safe they're suggesting that the synapses represent the primary bottleneck limiting the amount of information of limiting the faithful transmission of information through cortical circuitry.

04:49
The postsynaptic neuron can be viewed as an input output element. That converts the spike train from many presynaptic neurons into a single outputs by train. Input output transformation is the basic computation performed by neurons. It's a foundation upon which cortical processing is based the same saying like so like if you have if you have a so neuron can receive a lot of different inputs, right?

05:16
And it's going to crunch all of those inputs into a single spike. Right?

05:35
So people so imagine you're a neuroscientist right I say well how do we how do we let's say a nerf if you're trying to say okay a neurons like a computer but we take and it takes all this information it takes it takes like let's say you have let's say all the different connections to say neurons like a tree okay and the top of it is like a single spike it's like a the trunk of a tree but down you have these roots right because all these roots and what they're saying is like the roots are like a keyboard any of the key for any of the keys on the keyboard could be pressed, but all the keys all the text you type into it adds it to a single spike.

06:10
So that means you've had to select this incredible loss of meaning, right? You could have written Shakespeare's poem down here, but when it's spikes, it's been reduced to a single word, right? You see the problem there. Yeah, it's like well how is computation in the brain possible? If you're taking all this like diverse input and you reducing it into a single spike, how is it possible?

06:35
How is it possible? The thing is, it's not true. This proves that it's not true. But what's interesting is they built the whole architecture for neural networks artificial neural networks based on this wrong content. So the fundamental design of the of the perceptron is based upon a misunderstanding of the human brain.

07:03
They fundamentally bottleneck neural networks. And I know how and I not only did I write an article about this, right? But I checked with neuroscientists and I'm right. I'm right. This is right because well what happened what happened was I found out that what you get if I found out I mapped the exact I'm not exactly how it works, right?

07:30
So there are some papers a whole bunch of papers and I looked at these papers and I put them together and I've painted the picture of how it works. And so, I think we can design an a new artificial neuron. That doesn't have the bottleneck here. And here's how it will work.

07:47
So you have so you have you have imagined your tree and it collects all these diverse inputs. Now what happened was in computational neuroscience, they reduced they reduced them that single spike because it's not because spike is like it's not just spike. It's a frequency rate of spikes. So you got to reduce the end of the spike you're like well, okay, well we could pass along more information if we do like, You know.

08:14
You know five spikes instead of one spike or thirty spikes versus five spikes or hundred spikes versus thirties bytes like that is a way to transfer information right by doing more spikes or less spikes faster spikes or slower spikes, those are other ways to transfer information you can push information through the neuron that way.

08:32
And another thing was amplitude while you so they came up with the idea of okay, well we're gonna store the neurons either gonna fire or it's not gonna fire but what we're gonna do is if it fires, we're gonna give it a vector by giving it a number between zero and one.

08:48
And there's so it's like so could be like a point 45 or something like that. It's like almost to one and the vector will transmit a sort of amplitude. So there so we're sending more information through into the known network that way. That's what they're doing. But then okay, so it's not just a want on or off.

09:07
So they got more out of a neural network. So the original perceptron was just on or off. And like okay, we'll use a vector representation we'll get more information out of it, but you're still only getting frequency information or or time domain information and. But so we'll multi-vestical release means spatial information so you've temporal information and you're missing spatial information and and this is a hypothesis but I but I that I had that it means spatial information and in fact that's true because if you you're not has between 0 and a neuron has been a neuron in the neocortex has between 0 and 3 vesicles.

10:00
Okay and so 0 1 2 or 3 the vesicles get released. And it's totally I think it's actually on average is 2.6 the average neuron in the in the neocortex has 2.6 festivals right there's no such thing as a point 6 that's cool it's either a vesicle or not right but um, but the thing is okay, so best of cool contains a whole bunch of.

10:27
Neurotransmitters, okay, now the neurotransmitters it's like releasing a bunch of chemicals. That affect that from one synapse to another synapse okay, so there's a chemicals that are being transmitted. But the big thing the debate, so the change is like, okay, so um. In the presynapse we have going down to the branches of the tree if you have a lot of stuff happening then there's gonna then you're like a lot of basically a lot of a lot of synapses down below are sending up signals and so there's a lot of stuff happening.

11:11
That the dendrite is not throwing away because so human beings have special super large interests that are capable of being very selective about what information they respond to and what information they throw away so dendrite doesn't have to you consume it you can simulate a dendrite all day it doesn't have to respond it can throw away information until the till it sees the information that it wants to respond to mm-hm that's that's why it's like the dendrite is like a computer because it only it's only gonna respond to certain information it will it will throw out stuff that it doesn't respond to it's you can't just like, A human dendrite it's different for animal dandirects, but you just you can't you human dendrite is selective.

12:00
In the the way thing they don't they don't really explain they don't really explain very well is that so your brain is a hundred percent made out of cell, right? And then the films the cells are different kinds of different kinds of cells there's there's 100,000 different kinds of cells, right?

12:21
The cells are divided into different groups, so there's the there's the blood cells for the blood vessels there's you know, the blood vessel walls there's the neurons there's the glia the glia are like kind of like this fatty myelin waxy stuff that goes around the neurons and helps them to helps them to like the illegal dendrites.

12:45
Helps them to fire faster and supports it sorts supports the neuron metabolism. The neurons are very hungry they need to eat constantly otherwise, they die and the glia helps in neurons survive and they help the signals of travel faster, so the so they glia also you know, the the.

13:06
Most of the if you if you are able to get a.

13:13
If you're able to look at the anatomy of the brain most of the gray matter is on the outside of the brain like the outer shell and that's that's that's basically a lot of. Of neurons. And then inside that outer shell there's mostly white matter tracks that that are there are those white matter is covering neurons.

13:41
But the white matter is not really on the outside it's mostly about covering the neurons and covering the connections between neurons. And most of the neurons are are interneurons which have inhibitory role. So most of the brain is inhibiting the brain but it's not it's not and that means internarons are neurons between neurons that are sensory sensory input neurons so that so that makes sense because you're going to only so that the neurons are not in turn neurons are neurons that are directly connected to your senses like your eyes and your ears and your nose and stuff and then you have a somatosensory cortex.

14:23
Your brain basically has there's this brain has been sliced up in a lot of different ways but I prefer to slice it up in that you have like the somatosensory cortex the visual cortex you have the audio cortex and these are the primary sensory cortices right these three areas.

14:40
So the somatic somatosensory and visual cortex overlap but basically it's amount of sensory is n is in is where you're gonna have touch and you're gonna have taste happen so touch and taste the somatosensory part of that overlap with the visual cortex that's where your eyes are happening and then the the audio cortex starts in the brain it's your ears your ears, hit your brain stem first your brain and then it tripped then it goes up into your neocortex.
