b0281y ctpr
(audio note transcription needs fixing & editing)

Smell Consciousness Representations
00:07
So, I mean there is there is a medical definition of consciousness that I think is a little bit a little bit vague but but so I will I will I mean, you know and in you know, I think Max was saying that there's like 12 different what he's 12 different ways to describe consciousness.
00:27
I mean, I think that, Yeah, so I mean, I think that you can you can just consciousness have to involve self-awareness and I think it's surprising to me some people think that you can have like sort of like consciousness or or maybe just perception and doesn't include self-awareness and that's interesting.
00:46
Yeah, so I mean, there are definitely like they you know, if you ask them, you know, Jeff Hawkins, he thinks that you know computers can be conscious. With I mean I agree but but his ideas live at different in that he thinks that you basically we just replicate the neocortex that can you know, digitally the computer will be conscious without a without a will without a desire to do it to accomplish its own goals, that is not agenda.
01:25
Huh, I. I did for like I so I mean, I think that it's. There's there's a lot of there's lots to say that there's like a lot to empower but you know for. But I but I can say that basically. I think that you know, I I think that it basically comes down to.
01:55
Internal representations. I think that an internal representation or qualia or like let's say if you are if you are in an inside if you're in a room or if you're inside a building or if you're outside and you're seeing you're seeing the floor and you're seeing doors and you're seeing yeah the ground and the sky or the roof.
02:26
And and all the things you're seeing and hearing and and feeling all of your sensations are the volumetric representations, they're represented representations or renderings in a computer scent, so you'll think of a video games and virtual reality. And volumetric video like there there are 3d representations, they're four dimensional representations because there's an element of time that would be the fourth dimension right so what I'm saying is every emotion is four four dimensional every feeling is four dimensional.
03:04
Smell is for dimensional. It has because it's because it had because.
03:32
Of heat, right? So there's a temporal dimension. There's a moment in which it feels a certain way and then later it feels a little bit less or difference. So I think that the same at the same as it seems spatial temporal truth is is for smell as well. You know, and for everything we can see.
04:08
Plus well time and smell is is you know, there's a point when you smell something and maybe it's let's go with a funny example. It's with dot poop. I say is does dog poop and you smell it and it's wrong. It's really strong and it's then the smells like you walking away from it, so it's like less and less that is a that is um, there's a time sequence so it when it's strong that's the peak that's the four dimensional peak, that's what it is right take a big zip.
04:41
Molecule. It's like oh what about this moose to coffee? What about a little bit more pleasant to think about the richness of coffee the richness of like if you really like put the coffee up to your nose, you know, or let's talk about a flower now so now you're smelling a flower and yeah, so but it has a spatial dimension.
05:07
It's it's it's a little bit abstract but,
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio
