b0282y ctpr
(audio note transcription needs fixing & editing)
artificial Consciousness
00:00
Of no memory or record and so it becomes like kind of a black box to us because we're not able to like to pull any information out of that and reflect on it. This conversation is just showing me that as I said the terminology is. Stretchable for the topic, which I don't have.
00:50
Any and then we get. That so we can. Play, okay? But like, Like in this context what?
01:04
A friend or an object or represent knowledge that you. How can we make a computer recognize something, okay, well we can make some progress there how can we make a computer that can decide or a computer program that could plan or a computer program that could have an intention a goal like I can tell you how to like we have goals is to clean your whole floor and things like that so so if we just if we look a little if we open up the hood and we unpack the suitcase of this word consciousness and we talk about what we're really talking about like like so I say the word conscious.
01:44
It's like. The word that prevents us from thinking about how thinking really works because it obscurates everything every time we use it so if you're not using it, hey you come up with an alternative because I think you're mixing computation with consciousness also well no. I think that if you.
02:09
Like maybe three dozen things which which. Characterization attention imagining a decision like I can give you a scenario like imagine you're you're you're on your way to work to give a presentation and you're about to cross the street and you didn't look both ways and you almost got hit by a car so in that moment you thought like oh God, if I got killed what would my colleague think of me like but that was pretty idiotic of me.
02:39
I should be more careful so now we have this little scenario and let's unpack all of the things that happened so we heard a car so nice. What are you going with this? I mean, this is all computable that has nothing to do with consciousness.
03:02
Even think none of that had anything to do with consciousness. And what in the world, do you mean by consciousness?
03:12
Can I respond? So I was listening and I agree with pretty much everybody here but max because Max it seems to me that you don't really believe in consciousness because what you're saying is that all these different things, you know, identification perception awareness all of these are separate from consciousness and we are grouping all of these things together and we're stamping a label on the same alright all these things imagination.
03:47
Creation this is what you know consciousness is and I would say as humans, you know by nature we always identify things right, you know would so so so you can't say that oh you guys can you know come up with this well why not right we have to right but there's a lot of things like with consciousness it's it's a lot more complicated than than just identifying, you know different, you know of subjects right it's like like a car, for example, right you have a door that has a, Has a purpose you have an engine that has a purpose that the AC has a purpose right but it's still.
04:28
In the day it all make. Right so with my definition and everybody has their own definition, but my definition is that there's two types. This when Ivan was saying everything is consciousness, which I agree but it's not the same consciousness as the self-awareness consciousness that we all possess all living things possess right, it's the self-awareness it's the I am you know, it's the you know, and you talk about the subconscious but you but in a way the subconscious is like a sponge right it doesn't you know, it doesn't dictate what type of information it takes in it just takes in whatever is in the individuals first person perspective right, but.
05:15
But how is it that my myself right you know via I am is able to program my subconscious right, you know, and and I'm pretty sure that that that you know about this is you know, NLP and all these other things right so you're able to you know, dictate certain things within consciousness right and there's also different levels of consciousness how.
05:40
Come today. I get into a theta, you know, alpha beta state and when I you know wake up on my consciousness or excuse me, my meditation. I'm liking a different state right, you know, we're all going through different states of consciousness right, you know, so I think when it comes to you know, you know having this discussion.
06:01
I feel like everybody should be able to identify what they think. Is okay with AI be able to you know, you know have the same type of capabilities and as an I say and some aspects yes, but not in other aspects right so AI is very very quick as learning and problem-solving imagination and in creation right but the problem I see with AI is.
06:38
You know, that's. What have intuition, you know, I don't think so, you know psychedelics right, you know all these things right dreaming lucid dreaming actual projection channeling right, you know, yeah go ahead saying like that consciousness can't be broken down and to stay like representation and decision making and things.
07:10
Like the self and things like the subconscious and that there's different levels like you said.
07:33
We're gonna explain life but we're not allowed to mention any biochemical processes or any parts of a cell or it's it's it's like, Like how can you explain like business word explain business but you're not allowed to mention products customers transactions or anything like that business to me as a whole that is consciousness is what I'm trying to say the whole business is not the business though, the business is the whole consciousness, right?
08:19
I'm solving the imagination the dreaming of those different things are different facets of consciousness trying to say, so yeah. Others dozens of different things and we can step back and we can like, you know, having intelligent discussion about how you know how conscious is this thing that we made unpack it and start talking about it and solving those problems.
08:47
I think that by talking you're going to discover question what makes the Schrodinger's partial differential equation stochastic. Sorry. Well, I mean. Okay, you know the answer right? Yes. It is consciousness that clears the constraints for this differential equation. It takes an observer and then you will collapse and and what you are observing is the collapse of the the way function.
09:32
What makes all these work? So if you want to walk down from computer architecture down to the quantum level and you have to explain to me what makes that work because in no point there is something that can make it work. You have a false premise then.
09:55
Well, okay a computer can perform any the definition of a computer is that you can perform any process which can be precisely described. There's no quiz describing it. The programmer anything about computer. Well, I can teach you how to build a computer from the bottom up so that's that's okay.
10:29
Useful thing to do and. Do your own device?
11:10
To you and move over to you.
11:25
Okay, so complex topic. So probably the most important thing to before starting on a complex topic is to talk about definitions and I can tell you a little bit from the neuroscience side of it and I guess through many like introductory neuroscience textbooks and cognitive neuroscience textbooks. I think the best one I've come across mentioning consciousness kind of.
12:00
Textbooks trying to explain like where neuroscience is out from the in that terms in these terms and so one textbook. I remember said something about well consciousness could really be. To find this kind of like four different things you know, there's like are you conscious or not conscious like when you're like a sleeper versus you're you're awake, you know, so you're like, oh we can wear and there's other times that it's used one is to describe sort of this meta awareness of the fact that you yourself are thinking and so I think in many of these like discussions we have clubhouse or wherever like that's a common one that most people are talking about is that definition of consciousness, but then when the discussion, Progresses some other people's sort of give the sort of coming at it from like the other definition we're like, you know, and so these things I'll just get mixed up and so if I mean, I don't know who follows super closely but if you notice the field itself consciousness on the work consciousness, so you don't know circumstances about like consciousness because it's sort of like it's you know, Like you know, I think like special awareness might be one or like perceptual awareness and like some people use and only like only the Francis and the big the big players really actually consciousness but.
13:47
I just want to agree with Max and what I think what something was just like consciousness is not well defined by anyone else anyone says the last sentence is excellent, it will save us a lot of time and the last sentence is nothing.
14:45
Repeatable why. Because just because you have a word for something doesn't mean there's a thing for that word right saying that you can't just say consciousness. I don't like the best the best analogy. I think is like we have this word like life force that doesn't mean that there's a thing for that word that just means we have a word for some a lot of processes that we didn't really understand literally would take probably 45 seconds if anybody's interested.
15:55
In the the book the huge book on cognitive neuroscience, this is the mind body problem is the name of the chapter and then it starts consciousness so that's defined consciousness consciousness thoughts and feelings awareness, the term is impossible to define except in terms that are unintelligible without a grasp of what consciousness of what consciousness means many fall into the trap of equating consciousness with self-consciousness to be conscious it is.
16:30
Only necessary to be aware of the external world consciousness is a fascinating but elusive phenomenon is impossible to specify what it is when it does or why is it has evolved nothing worth reading has been written?
16:46
About it is probably worth reading because I feel like you see only one who kind of understands or has a good approach for thinking about it the development of machine learning by about 30 years right that's along topic. I believe he was so interested and and the potential the first neural net he was also so interested in the potential for of percent.
17:21
Age of about it some people took he was doing science when he wrote that book and trying to define limitations of perceptrons where this is impossible nothing what has been written about it and whatever exactly the same language and and 30 years later machine learning is working despite everything that he said so this.
17:56
Was because I forgot it's coming at it from the perspective of understanding neuroscience itself is all about understanding now mechanisms, right? Because neuroscience didn't exist the let's say even hundred and fifty years ago and yet the world still function without somebody giving it names and and deciding what's important and what's not important your science does not explain the world.
18:38
Yeah, sorry.
21:44
We're still there. It's just that we've developed now tools in order to measure them to the best of our abilities. And so the question really is can we take those tools that we've created in order to measure the processes that have always been functioning all along in order to?
22:05
As of right now that we've used to define these functions that have always been existing are to the level that are needed to define them.
22:19
Like. This.
22:30
Something different. Somebody said, you know, you can't make the computer cannot do I'll make it to it, but that's also proves my point that they have to get consciousness in order to make the computer do something. The computer by itself is not going to do something. It doesn't matter if you program it, right?
23:08
Away time do things which they want to program to do right? So sorry just I'll finish the second but so yeah, there are countless examples of neural networks in deep reinforcement agents, developing entirely counterintuitive and novel strategies creative, you know ways of solving problem? S so much better see if you just let me finish.
23:56
I will.
24:01
Click after next Thursday. So yes, so that notion that you know, any computer or any bit of software came up to a thing that it wasn't programmed to do is just false rights but demonstrated over and over again not to be the case. Okay, so can I reply to that notification?
24:30
First of all, I'm gonna sleep over in your own networking is a touring machine. It has to has a program and that program is executed it consists of jumps and sequence of what's called basic blocks of compiler generates and so whatever you do is to go through a very well-defined deterministic program and consists on high level by loops and each statements, so if you can tell me that the computer can do things that he hasn't.
25:30
A robots reflex to explore. The space of exploration it was able to become better and better and better at keeping certain tasks and actually to come up with entirely novel behaviors all together, so yeah none of that is right which it was only taught the rules of chess to learn principles are executed.
26:38
I just demonstrated that you were wrong actually spontaneous behavior from robotic agents, you'll see that what you said is not correct. Okay.
26:59
No more than you do but that's a different point that the intel CPU or the. GPU or the TPU by Google does anything different than I said. Yeah, we can take also call from Apple and and all the computers they're all for human machines and they follow deterministic program that cannot do what destiny robot is doing something.
28:02
Where it executes in a way where it's incorporating new information from the environment in order to modify its function. I mean, the list is a language that's capable of modifying itself.
28:33
Statement of consciousness or what basically one steps before that even occurs are you just saying that at least as far as what I'm putting together is that without a human input to even create the platform in the first place there would be no novel tasks that are being part of what I'm saying is neural networks, yes, they can do reinforcement learning what does that do underneath it's basically?
29:08
Linear algebra that pushes something through some kind of an nonlinear function, we make layers and layers of those and we do a lot of tricks but at the end it's so computational and it runs on one off arm until Google TPU or some modification of that which are all fun human machines that deterministic that is nothing ourselves for a good reason, it's called regularization so my.
29:43
Plan is that all of this requires human intelligence and then the computer will do certain things as is going to go and try to balance the weights if you do supervised learning is going to use the objective function to try to find the weights that produce the minimum between the output and whatever the input it doesn't matter if it's an auto encoder or something else all of these though is being programmed by humans who learned somehow linear algebra who learned what happens when you push something to a sigmoid function or tongue just have the body function.
30:18
And and they learn that if you have an objective function you better regularize it or else you're going to order it and on and on and on the computer does not do anything you made a very strong mind which is that computer can not come up with any behavior if you're unable to just like constrain yourself for five seconds or someone speaks or just please so you may just claim that a computer is not able to do.
30:53
Something that wasn't programmed to do right that's been shown to be false right there were all sorts of versions of novel unexpected spontaneously imagined behaviors coming from robotic systems coming from novel applications and the like and so I think a different claim and I'll just ask you if I can your original plan was actually different it was a consciousness is required to.
31:28
Kind of light the blue touch paper of this process, are you are you more saying the consciousness is required to advocate anything like this going it won't go by itself and and if you're saying that then I don't think anyone would disagree that is clearly the case with our current development of anything but speakers.
32:03
I did not say that I said there will not do anything that they're not programmed to do and here is why you I mean, it should be kind of obvious if you put the layers of the neural network the neural network will create all kind of behaviors but it's all there in the structural renewal network.
32:28
Ing that way and so that's great, so how is that a problem? To do with consciousness computer well, probably not so it will give you a new number every time what is that demonstrate? To computers talking about defining consciousness in humans consciousness.
33:51
Probe has been to selectively go after certain elements of consciousness. I think it's gonna be useful for people to sort of just very well defined what aspect they're talking about now is if we're gonna start outside of neuroscience and brands consciousness becomes even less defined and so now you can have ideas where where there's elements, you know.
34:26
Like a thermostat can be conscious in its own way that's nothing like human consciousness absolutely super far away from anything that's no but it might be his own type of consciousness and that's just the way you could define it but I think it just makes a lot of sense that we need to be very specific in terms of our terminology.
35:04
Okay. Should we move on opportunity?
35:15
Okay. Hello, everybody. I I am. My so I've been listening. I've been listening carefully. It's I I think that it's it's this the soapbox that I've been on is a little bit frustrating. You like it's not a good conversation when someone's being a know it all, you know and not being like humble and coming from a place like of like he knows everything and he's smarter than everybody.
35:44
I just it's really difficult to have a conversation and but I want to say that I mentioned I'm interested in creating computational internal modalities because you Know computers if you create an artificial neural network that basically has the same functionality as as a 3D neural network that's in a human brain then it's gonna be able to take incoming, you know patterns and do any kind of behavior that a human being can do and when I'm interested in seeing next is basically internal representations volumetric representations of audio video.
36:24
There's a tori all kinds of representations for a computer to refer to and since within its own. Artificial mind and sort of communicate to us what it's representing to itself and that I believe will be a step towards a conscious computer.
36:47
I was going to propose. Your reaction to this just whatever it may be just to kind of get an idea of your how it is that you you can see this and so I'm going to make it what you might consider an odd move. I'm going to talk about viruses right which are in the end just you know in the case of let's say the beta coronavirus that now a sales us just the single stranded RNA, right?
37:21
So it is essentially code and that code. Takes over time in interaction with with an environment and can develop all sorts of what in the end look like cunning in ingenious strategies for defeating very complex aspects of the human immune system. So disabling the production of macrophages and nitric oxide and increasing levels of thrombin all of these just accreted over the you know, this kind of recursive trial and error, you know.
38:02
Essentially just you know, a process of evolution much like occurs with let's say a you know, a deeper enforcement agent that's just being trialled to perform a particular task where and that task can be out in the world, right? So at that task can incorporate all the same kind of noise and variability that will occur with a virus in a host.
38:26
Do you see a virus or something that's capable of coming up with something novel and if the virus was originally, Programmed by evolution that it then is able to develop things which were astonishingly novel, right? You can jump to entirely different species. It can develop different methods for attacking complex organs to infiltrate them and to distribute itself.
38:52
Do you see that as something? I mean, you wouldn't argue. I'm assuming that a virus is conscious but it certainly does things which are mesmerizingly ingenious. I'm just curious what your reaction to that is. It's code, basically. Well, I agree with you but the code is no local the virus makes the sole do the work for for on its behalf and then we have inside what's called molecules storm around the motion of water molecules that are bombarding it so you can think of that as a adversarial network that is trying all kind of permutation.
39:31
So yeah, that's that's that's pretty sophisticated system but it's no local. I would suggest the book. It's called. The leaving that that describes non-local decisions made by insects and I mean a simple example will be a type of wasp that has surgical precision in injecting into the brain of a category some kind of a I don't know what is some kind of neural agent that paralyzes it then it goes and injects its eggs into the caterpillar the eggs are fed by the caterpillar then.
40:17
The future wasps if it is at some point an acid that breaks through the skin of the caterpillar they come out and and and this is always extremely sophisticated precision in in many steps the book is full with examples that are no local and they cannot be explained with simple combination questions because what you mean by so in the case of if you want to die perhaps it wasps latter if you wanted.
40:52
But you just explained what is non-local mean. It means that it cannot be explained by a single individual that belongs to the assembles. So like it causes effects that are not explainable by that action of one member of the ensemble. So I one individual wasp specifically there is a there is a yeah there is a orchestration that is beyond the single wasp and it cannot be explained by.
41:27
By the means that we have of locality and there are many examples in in actually living nature for that. So, I don't understand how it works. If I can return them because yeah, that's very very useful as a as a model so if I can return them to Max's point and say that we have, you know, like AlphaGo in these tournaments with itself tournaments against other players developing novel strategies.
41:51
None of these are in any of the instances of AlphaGo that are in its initial versions until it evolves in successive tournaments in. Way that it can monetize evolved in successive tournaments against tarantulas and caterpillars of a likewise, it's a kind of niche construction and co-evolution. It's it's a code evolving over time centrally right?
42:18
Well, it is good. So, we just have to understand Dexter's point and Max's. So, how do you mention you mentioned the emergence of spontaneity spontaneous behavior? What's your take on how this phenomenon will happen with let's let's take the alpha example. You know, learning by itself. Word is it due to then.
42:40
Sorry with what I mean by those right? If it's not deterministic. So we are we saying randomness is as part of creativity even by computer. Well, it's actually our perception of it, right? So it looks incredibly creative. I think I've been with this, right? So if we tell you to keep like, you know, just like camping a deep mind all time but but so with their initial, you know, kind of break out.
43:12
You know reinforcement learning agent that developed this novel strategy of always just you know, the game break out right just trying to knock out the side bricks. Yeah and then to get the part about to bounce around and this was you know, a strategy not contemplated by humans but eventually the agent arrived it looked incredibly creative.
43:32
I would agree with UI from that this was in the initial conditions this evolved deterministically but nevertheless it looks incredibly creative and so I would say our scription of what looks in genius and creative and novel and thought out is. Yeah it can proceed from, you know determinism what we may indeed exist in a deterministic universe.
43:54
We may not but what we determined to be or rather what we ascribed to be creative we know can evolve from purely deterministic processes a little better now. Thank you. Yeah, like I mean, the term creativity is really just a label that we used to describe results that impress us and that that are unexpected to some extent in in ingenious, but it there's no magic there.
44:18
It's just a label that we we give to you know, sometimes. Can stumble upon a good solution and and it seems creative. I mean, it's it's the the there's no the creative creativity is more of a label than a description of any like underlaying process that that's like a special type of thought.
44:38
I think I don't know if I'm maybe it's good basically yeah next turn. It's still true though that the alpha goal or the protein folding machine there. Executing a very well-known algorithm's problem by humans in the following sense evil either do. A reinforcement or you'll do Monte Carlo twee search it will it will.
45:19
Remember all the strategies yeah sure right? I mean it basically solves the Markov chains equations in order to find the highest probability of success in so many steps etc, etc, these are not things that the machine is conscious about it was the human who decided this is going to be the objective function we're going to be well, maybe I should just open the artificial intelligence book on I mean, It is 17 is anyone claiming that alpha go is conscious.
46:00
Yeah, I don't think anybody can can claim that alpha goes practices still needs an objective function, but I've been I think like we're probably violently in agreement about a lot of things because I think like yeah the current state of AI is rather disappointing in that it's not we're not using the right techniques because I agree that like these these procedural procedures and types of knowledge representation that we've come up with today are rather, let me let me third in the, Visual dead ends and in what we need to like we don't have computers that can think analogically and and that's like our special skill as you're right, we will never be able to make computer so I can think analytically simply means that we don't have good enough theories about what it means to to represent common sense every day knowledge and to create the kind of procedures that we need to operate on that knowledge and right the first cognitive architecture second can do the things that we do all right, look at the top of the page, it says our Artificial consciousness right that the word consciousness is there and my point for all of this and I take mucous criticism as valid is that whatever we are saying is written on the pages of the book by Parasso and Norway the new version and it's like chapter 16 17 and 18 of how to make alpha gold do the things that you do and it says making simple decisions the basic of utility theory utility functional multivariate utility functions decision network chapter 17.
47:45
Making complex decisions sequential decision process sure right so it's all there and it's all done by humans and and it's very sophisticated modelling and very sophisticated math and at the end the behavior is like very intelligent it can beat humans left and right and I'm not gonna argue that you cannot get spontaneously spontaneous decision and that injecting randomness is not going to reduce overfeeding etc etc, but what I, Was.
48:20
Saying is that the prerequisite for all of this happening is the human consciousness that came up with a mark of decision process and and Markov chains and Monte Carlo decision trees and all of these that makes with me. I think you're very good title if I could just say the room title if I can just say oh sorry yeah.
48:43
I was gonna say there are lots of people join so maybe let's give other people trying to speak sorry that was right also thing please. I have been listening for a long time. I have considered deeply what has been said and I have come with to a conclusion that I would like to share.
49:05
I think that this discussion is possible because the participants are not themselves conscious of consciousness. There is an argument of how to make a machine behave like a man decide something that it is so far away from the experience of consciousness, right, it's a bit it's a bit it's been logical.
49:37
To fundamental truth from my point of view is that we are not conscious of consciousness enough to perceive the discussion to be a lot of funding and that's not to take away from the prowess of our computational capacity or our ability to to imitate what we perceive to be each other's consciousness.
50:08
I hope that lands somewhere and I want to thank everybody for other great enthusiasm and and remind each other that perhaps we're not really aware of ourselves yet thank you so much good evening sir sensoriness, so I think there's a way of tackling this question systematically is artificial conscious as possible, well we haven't figured I had to do it yet but do people take the position that is not possible or just so we haven't figured it out yet, no.
50:36
I think Paul to translate briefly we are not yet in an even in agreement on the multiple definitions. Of the term and I think this is part of the heated discussion and then the other part is people disagreeing on the on the technology and the inputs of consciousness during the process of building computers which are deterministic and so on but what I'd like to do is it's in since then the room is doubled in size at least third.
51:05
I'd like to give an opportunity to new to newspaper to speak do a PTR run on PTR and I can see that Roy seems to be the hello everybody.
51:22
Thanks for having him just catching up. To learn I don't and I haven't make a position yet yeah so if we could get Paul Johnson, okay fair enough Paul let's pull please go ahead. I didn't mean to cut you off please go ahead and then we'll follow the wrong sure and I say this from the perspective that we've been running a conversation series on the intersection between AI and our science and consciousness and having several researchers who are studying in the neuroscience of consciousness and exploring the nature of consciousness and machines, so that's the context for my comments, so there's there.
52:00
's a nation of consciousness used in the neuroscience study of consciousness which is I guess the consciousness that the brain does and we think of the brain as a biological machine then that definition of consciousness is probably the one that we'd want to use for understanding artificial consciousness and the the framing the people use for that is having perceptual awareness that is having some kind of interior phenomenology and you know, whatever it is that you know, when you're wake up in the morning from dreamless sleep, and you know reality, you know turns on you look out, you can see the world the medical definition of consciousness.
52:34
I think. That's what is often used in the scientific study of consciousness and there's some scientific conferences on it that kind of use that framing. So if you want to say one of the obstacles is a definite definition to work with I want to connect with I want to add to that.
52:54
Is does everyone agree that if there were an artificial construct the humans could derive which could perform or rather in here that state the cultures refer to that we would consider that be conscious. I certain would if we're if everyone's happy without I think we can proceed I agree with that but I want to add to that real quick that's not the real quick on that.
53:24
Hi this is Frank just like, um. Just for this point of consciousness your bed, uh, Hello okay huh yeah just hundred point of first just consciousness like human consciousness. I think that's something was stirred trying to understand and a scientific point of view because like my like, you know, I'm conscious right now, but I can I can't prove how your conscious right or anybody in this room that's the thing like that's hard because like I can look at something and I can be conscious of one thing right and and like you know, and but I can't prove how your conscience right so in the Fact of if we can create an artificial conscious.
54:14
I think that's I believe we can probably get to artificial intelligence, but since we still can even prove how we get consciousness. I think it will not be possible as I'll say that right now so I want to can I can I go next, okay, can I go next lecture?
54:34
To move on to that somebody an opportunity to speak and that without the cue has been trying to talk me car, which has been waiting okay, this is my this is Mikey here, no, so I'm so sorry, sorry. I've got Max was already spoken for like half of. Increased who's already spoken and an F is always accused legally, so I think it's on to growing less somebody sees the list differently.
55:08
Everybody if anyone wants to speak before me, I have no problem waiting, um, I don't need this right now okay does okay, that's funny if you want to handle your time, that's fine, so the next I've got on the list is Marina who haven't heard yet if she's here.
55:23
Say I'm hi everyone they're interesting discussion I mine are not comments by normal questions and I think I've two of them one thing would be directed more to Dexter and one to max but anyone who could contribute obviously I'd love to hear from my first question regarding spontaneity in machines and specifically also go obviously we've come a long way since the blue but so I understand how alpha go I don't I'm not a programmer.
55:51
I understand the premise of how it sort of came about and my question is this if we were to replicate the same process if we were to create an alpha. Or recreate an alpha go from scratch so essentially feed it the rules of Chinese and let it play itself resilient times and learned from playing itself the final product that we would end up with would it be completely identical to the alphago we have or could it potentially be different from it?
56:21
I'm sorry, but somebody has the mic on let me check who does please carry on Marion. Okay thank you and my second question is this so suppose for able to create a machine that replicates the way the brain works as closely as possible in terms of how it receives sensory stimuli how it process how it engages and information processing whatever it is that happens in the brain it's suppose we create a machine that is able to replicate all of that do you think that consciousness would necessarily emerge in that machine and one and understand a consciousness has very different levels and sort of facets to it the one I'm Hurting it particularly interested in is the subjective experiences as in you know like you any like you could have a machine that like you insert a probe into a pineapple and it does a chemical analysis and says, yes, this is a pineapple or a machine that you know sees an object through video and identifies the color red, um, but that seems very distinct from the subjective experience that would have of what it's like to see red and what it's like to taste pineapple that is beyond just merely identifying it as starch it's a distinct experience do you think that would necessarily emerge from the physical?
57:37
Makeup of the machine that is basically very similar if not a copy of the brain desert yeah go ahead guys yeah the first question was just as Ivan said if it's a touring machine that's gonna play out the same way every time there are ways that you can render you know something essentially unpredictable you can add young chaos or noise into a process and come up with things which are even at the level of.
58:12
Potential to measure them at the plant legs your spontaneous, but in the end the kind of spontaneity that we're referring to is I think as Max said rather eloquently is is just this thing that we think is spontaneous and creative and novel it may be the case that even you know, the the ceiling of the cysteine chapel was just a deterministic evolution of physics and we think it's incredibly creative but this is just the description that we as deterministic machines give to that.
58:47
Phenomenon so it could be the same but that doesn't make it any more or less creative that's why our first question thank you yeah on the second question yeah I would say yeah absolutely if if we had a machine that modeled like everything our brain does then it would have subjective experience.
59:08
I would go even further to say that I don't believe it's necessary that we modeled the brain to do that in the same way that it's not necessary that we you know, copied a bird in order to to create a fine machines and so I think it's, Possible to to to understand aspects of intelligence knowledge representation and great machines that can think analogically and that they can have models of themselves and have self-read in reflect on their models of themselves and and have all of the things that we do without actually copying what the brain does.
59:40
I don't think that's the only way forward and if I may go a little bit further about this notion of qualia, so the idea that like when we see this this color red and that's this it's like this very irreducible subjective thing. I think that's a wrong idea. And and it's not really supported by neuroscience and so like what like I see a lamp on the table in this room and that perception seems utterly simple to me, it's so direct and it's so immediate that the process seems quite irreducible, but if you just look at it and and it's there it's the screen lamp but like today we know much more about what actually happens when I see this lamp and it involves processes in many parts of the brain and in many billions of neurons and so the idea that there's this movie and there's some observer in.
01:00:32
Their head it seems so direct and simple but we we know that it's it's nothing like that that like what like we know a lot about perception and it's not simple and direct it's complex and indirect like signals come into our eyes and our ears and our nose and they undergo many transformations there's bottom up signals that interact with top down signals about like expectations and these signals reach many different parts of the brain and what emerges isn't as simple image for someone to watch but a multi-layered sets of representations that are infused with memories.
01:01:07
Terms of expectations. And so I guess I can just start to back off but like this this idea of comparing like you know, this irreducible subjective qualia it's it's it's like comparing a Tesla to a brick and then looking that's like saying like this this sophisticated car that suffered, you know, autonomous vehicle it's it's like really a dumb brick that has no moving parts and then how can we explain how this dumb brick could move around and avoid obstacles?
01:01:42
I maybe that's maybe I'm I'm up too late and I'm studying to I agree with articulate. I'd like to respond to I'd like to respond to Max and be contacts of what the previous speaker the speaker right before. Max was saying I've been trying to manage the stage and the room so I don't know exactly who that was but I just wanted to confirm it was who text her?
01:02:10
Yeah. Oh, okay. Hey, so the question to you is and is probably simple yes or. No is that do you believe in a purely deterministic universe then? Why I have no particular position, the universe could be deterministic it maybe somewhat undeterministic or non-deterministic guys. I think it's weird have good evidence frankly it took place partially deterministic.


New people up just so that we are getting a little bit crowded on here and I want to make sure we don't miss anyone. So we can clarify something because. In a sentence before we move on is that okay. So I wasn'tsaying I wasn't talking about the observer in the head kind of experience because that's observer with required observer and it's head and so on I'd infinitum so it was more of a like but like it's a poly issue it's I think you  answered it but I wasn't trying to say that there's an observer in the head that's you know, experiencing the world that doesn't make sense to me, but thank you.
01:03:38
Yeah, I just yeah, I wanted to address often there's this this notion of like qualia is Max, how is Max in? Dexter dominating those conversations? So I.
01:03:54
Knew. I on anything that's been fed, or just popping in general just wash your mic and I can write down for a few. All right, so I got Ramsey. Julia third. You want to ask the range. Okay, so we're gonna just.
