=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0282y artificial Consciousness Conversation
First recorded: 2021-05-19T06:30:38.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/dd246377-576e-4fc2-9cc5-cd547784cafd
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
We have no memory or record, and so it becomes like kind of a black box to us because we're not able to like to pull any information out of that and reflect on it.
This conversation is just showing me that as Ivan said, the terminology is dreadful for the topic.
And you said that too, we just don't have, we're not enough to define the consciousness, which is I think why, you know, the misunderstandings and Ivan reaction, we need to understand.
I think the way forward is to simply, anytime you're compelled to use the word consciousness, I think, how about if we just pause and think, okay, what could I say a bit more specifically, like what, and then we can unpack that.
What I'm talking about is the ability to make a computer recognize something.
Okay, well, we can make some progress there.
How can we make a computer that can decide or a computer protein your whole floor and things like that?
So if we just, a suitcase of this word consciousness, and we talk about what we're really talking about, like, so I say the word consciousness, it's like, it's this word that prevents us from thinking about how thinking really works, because it obfuscates everything, every time we use it.
So, Max, if you stop using it, have you come up with an alternative?
Because I think you're mixing computation with consciousness also.
Well, no, I think that consciousness is three dozen things, which I could iterate through.
It has to do with identification, characterization, attention, imagining, indecision.
Like, I can give you a scenario.
Like, imagine you're on your way to work to give a presentation, and you're about to cross the street, and you didn't look both ways, and you almost got hit by a car.
So, like, that was pretty idiotic of me.
I should be more careful.
So, we recognized...
Wait, wait, wait.
Where are you going with this?
I mean, this is all computable.
That has nothing to do with consciousness.
No, but, okay.
So your experience crossing the street and recognizing the sound of a car and imagining what your friend would think, none of that had anything to do with consciousness?
Then what in the world do you mean by consciousness?
Thank you much, everybody here, but Max.
Because, Max, it seems to me that you don't really believe in consciousness.
Because what you're saying is that all these different things, you know, identification, perception, awareness, all of these are separate from consciousness.
And we are grouping all of these things together, and we're stamping a label on it, saying, all right, all these things, imagination, creation, this is what, you know, consciousness is.
And I would say, as humans, you know, by nature, we always identify things, right?
You know, so you can't say that, oh, you guys can't, you know, come up with this.
Well, why not?
Like, we have to, right?
But there's a lot of things, like, with consciousness, it's a lot more complicated than just identifying, you know, different, you know, subjects, right?
It's like a car, for an example, right?
You have a door that has a purpose.
You have an engine that has a purpose.
The AC has a purpose, right?
But it's still a car at the end of the day.
It all makes up one car, right?
So, with my definition, and everybody has their own definition, but my definition is that there's two types of consciousness, right?
There's consciousness, which I agree, but it's not the same consciousness as the self-awareness consciousness that we all possess, all living things possess, right?
It's the self-awareness.
It's the I am, you know?
It's the, you know, and you talk about the subconscious, but the subconscious is like a sponge, right?
It doesn't, you know, it doesn't dictate what type of information it takes in.
It just takes in whatever is in the individual's first-person perspective, right?
But how is it that my self, right, you know, the I am is able to program my subconscious, right, you know?
And, you know, I'm pretty sure that you know about this is, you know, NLP and all these other things, right?
So, you're able to, you know, dictate certain things within consciousness, right?
And there's also different levels of consciousness.
How come when I meditate, I get into a theta, you know, alpha, beta state, and when I, you know, wake up on my consciousness or, excuse me, my meditation, I'm like in a different state, right?
You know, we're all going through different states of consciousness, right, you know?
So, I think when it comes to, you know, having this discussion, I feel like everybody should be able to identify what they think consciousness is so that they can say, okay, would AI be able to, you know, have the same type of capabilities?
And I say in some aspects, yes, but not in other aspects, right?
So, AI is very, very, very quick at learning and problem-solving, imagination, and creation, right?
But the problem I see with AI is, you know, does it have the ability to have intuition?
You know, I don't think so, you know, psychedelics, right?
You know, all these things, right?
Dreaming, lucid dreaming, actual projection, channeling, right?
You know, all these things that...
Yeah, go ahead.
So, you kind of started off saying, like, to these things that I'm suggesting, like, representation and...
Right, it can, but you have to...
Yeah, then you went on to say that it's made up of things like the self and things like the subconscious and that there's different levels and that there's...
Like you said, I can't...
That's exactly what you were saying, Max.
I couldn't imagine AI having these same capabilities.
That's plural.
So, essentially, like, if you're saying it can't be broken down, then that's like saying, okay, we're going to explain life, but we're not allowed to mention any biochemical processes or any parts of a cell.
Or, you know, it's like, could you explain...
Like, business is a case word.
Like, can you explain business, but you're not allowed to mention products, customers, transactions, or anything like that?
Okay.
Now, explain business to me.
Okay, I'm going to explain it to you.
Hold on, I'm going to explain it real quick, real quick.
It's the business as a whole that is consciousness is what I'm trying to say.
The whole business, everything...
And it's made up of things like transactions and products, accounting and marketing and sales.
But just that by itself is not the business, though.
You know, the business is the whole consciousness, right?
The problem solving, the imagination, the dreaming, all of those different things are different facets of consciousness.
Right, so let's...
The whole is clear than some of its parts, is what Chris is trying to say.
So, yeah, if we make progress on all those dozens of different things, then we can step back and we can, like, you know, have an intelligent discussion about how, you know, how conscious is this thing there until we unpack it and start talking about it and solving those problems.
But, Max, you think that by talking, you're going to discover it.
I'm going to ask you a simple question.
What makes the Schrodinger's partial differential equation stochastic?
This consciousness that creates the constraints for this differential equation.
It needs an observer, and then it will collapse.
And what you're observing is the collapse of the wave function.
Okay, but if that's some kind of argument about why we...
What makes all this work?
So, if you want to, I'll walk you down from computer architecture down to the quantum level, and you have to explain to me what makes that work.
Because in no point, there is something that can make it work, right?
Well, then maybe you have a false premise.
Then maybe you're starting to perform any...
The definition of a computer is that it can perform any process which can be precisely described.
How?
There's no...
Who is describing it?
Do you know anything about computers?
Are you just plain dumb?
I can teach you how to build a computer from the bottom up, so that's a...
Okay, well, then you should know that...
I do know.
I'm not sure the point you're trying to make at all.
Okay, well, okay.
Basically, if you want to make it, I believe that it's a useful thing to do.
And...
No, you're making a computing device.
You're making a computing device.
You're not making...
I'm not interested in your reasons why it can't be done, because I'm going to try to do it anyway.
So, like, if you have some reason why it can't be done, then just save it, because it's...
I'm not going to...
I believe it can't be done, so you're not going to convince me otherwise.
Well, the purpose of this conversation is not to decide, for us to decide if Max should build intelligent machines,
neither for Ivan to convince him that consciousness is there.
But I think we should move on a little bit, if Kyla and Ivan agree, because there are other speakers who've been waiting.
Yeah, definitely.
Yeah.
So, Chris, we may come back to you and move over to F, if that's okay with you.
I can have some things I can...
Okay, so, complex topic.
So, probably the most important thing to, before starting on a complex topic, is to talk about definitions.
And I can tell you a little bit from the neuroscience side of it.
And I guess, through many, like, introductory neuroscience textbooks and cognitive neuroscience textbooks,
I think the best one I've come across, mentioning consciousness, kind of...
These textbooks try to explain, like, where neuroscience is at in that terms, in these terms.
And so, one textbook I remember said something about, well, consciousness could really be defined as kind of, like, four different things.
You know, there's, like, are you conscious or not conscious, like, when you're, like, asleep or sedated, right?
Versus you're awake, you know, so you're, like, awake and aware.
And then there's other times that it's used.
One is to describe sort of this meta-awareness of the fact that you yourself are thinking.
And so, I think in many of these, like, discussions we have in Clubhouse or wherever, like, that's a common one that most people are talking about,
is that definition of consciousness.
But then, when the discussion progresses, some other people sort of give the, sort of are coming at it from, like, the other definition.
We're, like, you know, and so these things all just get mixed up.
And so, if, I mean, I don't know who follows neuroscience super closely, but if you notice the field itself, consciousness,
the word consciousness almost has this sort of, like, tabooness.
So, you don't read, and, I mean, I'm in circuit, neural circuits, so, like, you don't read papers about, like, consciousness
because that's, it's sort of, like, it's, you know, it's sort of a taboo word.
So, there's, like, kind of field study areas where they kind of are studying it, but, like, you know,
I think, like, spatial awareness might be one or, like, perceptual awareness.
And, like, so there's these sort of keywords that some people use, and only, like, only the Francis Cricks and Michael Kazaniga
and the big players really actually ever even use the word consciousness.
But, anyways, I just want to agree with Max and what I think Axel and, like, what many people are agreeing with.
It's, like, consciousness is not well-defined by anyone.
I think I have Kazaniga's book up right here.
Where it's, he cites this, I could read it if anybody wants to read it.
He cites this thing, and then he goes on and says, the last sentence is excellent.
It will save us a lot of time.
And the last sentence of the thing he cited is, nothing worth reading has ever been written on it.
So, it's, like, yeah, this word consciousness is not, like, yeah, it's not well-defined.
So, I think I agree with Max in that whenever we are going to start saying something or citing something that we know about it,
it's probably worth it to break it down further and not just say consciousness.
I guess that's my main point.
Yeah.
Is it why it's taboo?
When you say it's taboo, is that last sentence you said, is that why it's taboo?
Because it's ill-understood?
Sorry, I was, okay, so, I was just saying it's sort of taboo in the field in the fact that, like, nobody who wants, you know,
nobody reputable will start saying, like, consciousness or give a talk on consciousness unless it's, like, you know,
Francis Crick or Michael, you know, unless it's, like, a person who doesn't need to worry about that.
So, that's what I mean by taboo.
Do you have any idea why?
Yeah, I think it's just in one word, in one sentence, because just because you have a word for something
doesn't mean there's a thing for that word, right?
You know?
Yeah, I think that's, it might, yeah, I think that's part, that gets at it.
Like, you're just talking about this ill-defined thing that, so you can't just, like I said, like, consciousness,
like the vital, like the vital life force, that's, like, the best, the best analogy, I think.
It's, like, we have this word, like, life force, but that doesn't mean that there's a thing for that word.
That just means we have a word for some, a lot of processes that we didn't really understand.
Okay, if anybody's interested, I could read the paragraph that, like, it's literally would take probably 45 seconds
if anybody's interested.
Yeah, so this is in the Kazaniga book, the huge book on cognitive neuroscience.
This is the mind-body problem, is the name of the chapter, and then it, it starts, or, here, consciousness,
so it's defining consciousness, consciousness.
The having of perceptions, thoughts, and feelings, awareness.
The term is impossible to define, except in terms that are unintelligible, without a grasp of what consciousness,
of what consciousness means.
Many fall into the trap of equating consciousness with self-consciousness.
To be conscious, it is only necessary to be aware of the external world.
Consciousness is a fascinating, but elusive phenomenon.
It is impossible to specify what it is, what it does, or why it has evolved.
Nothing worth reading has been written on it.
Sutherland, 1995.
Okay, I would say that everything that Marvin Minsky has written about it is probably worth reading,
because I feel like he's the only one who kind of understands, or has a good approach for thinking about it.
You know that Marvin Minsky delayed the development of machine learning by about 30 years, right?
The potential, so one, Marvin Minsky invented the first neural net.
He was also so interested in the potential of perceptrons that he dedicated many years and wrote an entire book about it.
Some people are trying to define limitations of perceptrons.
Right, and he used exactly the same language that F just cited, where this is impossible, nothing worth has been written about it, and whatever.
Exactly the same language.
And 30 years later, machine learning is working despite everything that he said.
Can I add one quick thing, just because I forgot to mention, this book is a neuroscience textbook.
It's coming at it from the perspective of understanding neural mechanisms.
Neuroscience itself is all about understanding neural mechanisms that sort of...
And you understand that way before humans existed, the universe still functioned properly, right?
I don't understand how that's connected, sorry.
Oh, it's very connected, because neuroscience didn't exist, let's say, even 150 years ago, and yet the world still functioned without somebody giving it names and deciding what's important and what's not important.
Neuroscience does not explain the world.
Well, Ivan...
It explains what humans understand.
It explains our perception of the world.
Yeah, you're right.
Neurons exist in jellyfish.
No, it does not explain...
Sorry, no, it doesn't even explain that.
Okay, yeah, perhaps it doesn't fully explain the world, but yeah, our interpretation of the world is dependent on our neural activity.
So let me ask you then, before neuroscience existed, what made the world actually function?
No, no, that's not my...
That's not my...
Humans functioning in the world, right?
So Ef just said, it's essential to how we experience and function in the world, not how the world functions.
Those are two different things.
Of course, there are two different things, but it doesn't mean that that's not a valid question.
It's not a valid question, because you are asking for apples and oranges, and there are two different things.
He said, it seems like neural functioning is kind of, you know, somewhat of essence to the way that we perceive the world.
That doesn't mean that the world doesn't exist if we don't perceive it.
I thought the topic was consciousness, not what human thinks about consciousness.
You seem to have forgotten my question, so I think we just forgot that.
Yeah, to try to un-muddle things a bit, Ivan, if you're implying that I'm trying to be some kind of obstructionist by saying that, like, consciousness isn't worthwhile to think about,
then I think you've misunderstood or I've failed to articulate myself well.
Because, in fact, what I'm trying to do is help everyone make a bit of progress in how they think about consciousness by suggesting that we unpack this into disparate ideas so that we can progress.
It seems constructive, and maybe by asking the questions that I'm asking, I'm trying to be constructive too.
And that is, you're going and trying to explain consciousness by something that exists barely seven years.
Computers didn't exist seven years ago.
And we build them using, I would claim, consciousness.
Okay, well, I'm not trying to explain consciousness by computers.
What I'm trying to do is think about how we might make a machine do the kinds of things that humans do.
So, when we use the word consciousness, and we look under the hood, we're often talking about things like recognition, and we're talking about attentional control, and things like planning, and selecting, and imagining.
That's called computation.
Max, this is called computation.
No, we use these in neuroscience as well.
These are subsets.
These are things you can actually ask a question and actually get an answer, is that you have to break it down into something that specific.
Well, I think, you're telling me these are not computations?
I'm sorry, then you don't know anything about computation?
Well, I think long before we define the field of neuroscience, all of the same neural principles were still there.
It's just that we've developed now tools in order to measure them to the best of our abilities.
And so, the question really is, can we take those tools that we've created in order to measure the processes that have always been functioning all along, in order to, as of right now, that we've used to define these functions that have always been existing, aren't to the level that are needed to define them?
Suggesting that, like, somehow, it's because of, like, the John Serral Chinese room type of experiment, which has been debunked by the...
I want to say something different.
I don't think that's what he said.
Norbert Wiener was asked something like that.
I'm arguing against what you think I'm arguing.
Somebody said, you know, you can't make the computer do blah.
And Wiener said, well, if you tell me what the computer cannot do, I'll make you do it.
But that also proves my point, that there has to be a consciousness in order to make the computer do something.
The computer by itself is not going to do something that hasn't been programmed.
And it doesn't matter if you program it by writing objective code, or if you've actually computed the weights of a neural network.
That's just not the case, Ivan.
No, no, no.
What he's saying...
So computers all the time do things which they weren't programmed to do, right?
I'm sorry.
How do they exactly do that?
Sorry, just, I'll finish in a second.
But, so, yeah, there are countless examples of neural networks and deep reinforcement agents developing entirely counterintuitive and novel strategies, creative, you know, ways of solving problems that they're...
Sorry, sorry, I will explain how they do it.
No, no, let me explain how they do it.
I think it's going to work so much better.
Dexter, let me explain to you how they do it.
No, seriously, if you just let me finish, I will.
All right, yeah, let's let Dexter put his point out there, and then we'll let Ivan respond after Dexter is finished.
Thanks, Ivan.
So, yeah, so that notion that, you know, any computer or any bit of software cannot do a thing that it wasn't programmed to do is just false, right?
It's been demonstrated over and over again not to be the case.
Okay, so can I reply now to that not to be the case?
So, I'm going to skip over neural networks for the moment.
I'll return to them.
Any computer that you're using is a Turing machine.
It has to have a program, and that program is executed.
It consists of jumps and sequence of what's called basic blocks that compiler generates.
And so, whatever you do, it has to go through a very well-defined deterministic program, and that consists on a higher level by loops and if statements.
So, if you can tell me that the computer can't do things that it hasn't been programmed, that is absolutely incorrect.
Any von Neumann computer does exactly what it is programmed.
Now, you can go 55 loops in a different way, but eventually this is a deterministic machine.
You can do 10,000 loops or 1 million loops, and you can jump left and right, but the computer is never going to do something that it hasn't been programmed.
You cannot get outside of the program.
Do you understand that?
Yeah, you're actually completely wrong.
So, if you look at a roboticist, there's a Korean-Japanese roboticist called Juntani, just to give you one example of many, many examples one could cite.
But, basically, he developed a process just simply by feeding back a robot's own motor arc reflexes back into its system.
It created entirely spontaneous behaviors.
And so, basically, in the same way as the brain does, by exploiting noise to allow it to explore the space of exploration, it was able to become better and better and better at achieving certain tasks and actually to come up with entirely novel behaviors altogether.
So, yeah, none of that is right.
Yeah, or Google's AlphaZero, which it was only taught the rules of chess, and then it played itself to learn all the principles of how to be a master chess player.
Max, do you know on what architecture these programs are executed?
I just demonstrated that you were wrong.
No, you didn't demonstrate that.
I did, actually.
If you look at Juntani's paper on the emergence of spontaneous behavior from robotic agents, you'll see that what you said is not correct.
Did you listen to what I said?
Well, like, I'm a computer scientist, and Dexter's one of the smartest people I know.
And, like, we don't need a tedious breakdown of how computers work.
I mean, we can explain to you how compilers work and the nuances of computer programming and things, if you like.
So, I mean, what's the point?
I mean, it's like a pissing contest on who knows more about how computers work.
Well, I'm certain I know more than you do, but that's a different point.
If you want to have an intelligent conversation, prove me that the Intel CPU or the NVIDIA GPU or the TPU by Google does anything different than I said.
Actually, yeah, you can take also Qualcomm, Apple, and all the ARM computers.
They're all for human machines, and they follow deterministic program that cannot do what Dexter is saying some robot is doing something.
Well, you can program – the point that Dexter's making is that you can program a machine to where it executes in a way where it's incorporating new information from the environment in order to modify its function.
I mean, the Lisp programming language is kind of written as a language that's capable of modifying itself in things.
We don't really do that type of programming very often, but we probably should.
But anyway, like, computer software is infinitely malleable, not only by humans, but by the machine itself.
But that is a statement of consciousness, or what?
Are you suggesting that basically one step before that even occurs, are you just saying that, at least as far as what I'm putting together, is that without a human input to even create the platform in the first place, there would be no novel tasks that are being created?
Yeah, that is part of what I'm saying.
The other part that I'm going to say is neural networks.
Yes, they can do reinforcement learning, but at the end, what does that do?
Underneath, it's basically linear algebra that pushes something through some kind of a nonlinear function.
We make layers and layers of those, and we do a lot of tricks, but at the end, it's all computational, and it runs on one of ARM, Intel, Google TPU, or some modification of that, which are all for human machines.
They're deterministic.
There is nothing stochastic there.
We insert the noise ourselves for a good reason.
It's called regularization.
So, my point is that all of this requires human intelligence, and then the computer will do certain things.
Yes, it's going to go and try to balance the weights.
If you do supervised learning, it's going to use the objective function to try to find the weights that produce the minimum error between the output and whatever the input.
It doesn't matter if it's an autoencoder or something else.
All of this, though, is being programmed by humans who learned somehow linear algebra, who learned what happens when you push something to a sigmoid function or tangus hyperbolic function,
and they learned that if you have an objective function, you better regularize it or else you're going to overfit, and on and on and on.
The computer does not do any of this on its own.
It just follows.
Ivan, you made a very strong claim, right?
Which is that a computer can not come up with any behavior...
I did not say that.
No, I did not say that.
Ivan, if you're unable to just, like, constrain yourself for five seconds while someone speaks, just please.
So you made this claim that a computer is not able to do something that it wasn't programmed to do, right?
That's been shown to be false, right?
There are all sorts of versions of novel, unexpected, spontaneously emergent behaviors coming from robotic systems, coming from novel applications of deep reinforcement agents and the like.
And so I think you're making a different claim, and I'll just ask you, if I can, your original claim was actually different.
It was that consciousness is required to kind of light the blue touch paper of this process.
Are you more saying that consciousness is required to ever get anything like this going?
It won't go by itself.
And if you're saying that, then I don't think anyone would disagree.
That is clearly the case with our current development of anything.
Yeah, I'm glad I heard that.
That was my understanding of what Ivan was saying.
But Ivan, please carry on.
And perhaps after that, we should introduce some new speakers, because I think it's not that we are going circle, but we went very technical.
So Ivan said that computers can't do anything novel, but are you not saying that?
I did not say that.
I did not say that.
I said they will not do anything that they're not programmed to do.
And here is why.
I mean, it should be kind of obvious.
If you put the layers of the neural network, the neural network will create all kinds of behaviors.
But it's all there in the structure of the neural network.
When you're training, can I say this?
So then why do you bring it up?
What is the point that you're trying to make?
So they can do things that are novel if they're programmed that way.
And so that's great.
So how is that a problem?
So that novelty has nothing to do with consciousness, it has to do with computers.
Computer can generate the numbers from zero to infinity.
Well, probably not, but with multiple precision, even that.
So it will give you a new number every time.
What does that demonstrate?
Ivan, you brought this back to computers.
I was still halfway through talking about defining consciousness in humans.
I hadn't even got to broader consciousness yet, but you brought it to computers.
Okay, so why don't you finish your thoughts, and then we can introduce Mika, if that's all right, with the modes, to the stage.
Yeah, so I was just talking about definitions of consciousness, how it's poorly defined with four, and I think you stopped at two, if I'm not mistaken.
But can I just say that you're defining human consciousness, not consciousness?
So I was starting from the perspective of neuroscience and cognitive neuroscience, saying that I've been through multiple intro textbooks.
The best one I heard, there's like, it's not defined, but the whole point is consciousness is not well defined.
The way neuroscience has probed at it has been to selectively go after certain elements, perceptual awareness is one key word, and so forth.
And I just, so saying, in terms of consciousness, I think it's going to be useful for people to sort of just very well define what aspect they're talking about.
Now, if we're going to step outside of neuroscience and brains, consciousness becomes even less defined, and so now you can have ideas where there's elements, you know, like a thermostat could be conscious in its own way.
And that's nothing like human consciousness, absolutely super far away from anything that's neural, but it might be its own type of consciousness, and that's just a way you could define it.
But I think it just, it makes a lot of sense that if we're going to talk about any of these things, that we need to be very specific in terms of our terminology and what we're going to use.
And if we all just say, like, oh, no, consciousness this versus consciousness that, and we're not kind of defining what we mean by that, it's going to just be a confusing conversation.
That was the end.
And my name's Scott.
Should we move on?
I said Dexter flashing his mic, but we should give Mika an opportunity to say hi and share his vote.
Okay.
Hello, everybody.
I, I, I, um, my, uh, so I, I've been listening, I've been listening carefully, uh, it's, um, I, I think that it's, it's, this, the soapbox that Ivan's on is a little bit frustrating.
Um, like, it's not a good conversation when someone's being a know-it-all, you know, and not being, like, humble and coming from a place like, of, like, he knows everything, and he's smarter than everybody.
I just, it's really difficult to have a conversation, um, but I want to say that I'm, I'm interested in, uh, in creating computational internal modalities because, you know, computers, if you create an artificial neural network that basically has the same functionality as, as a 3D neural network that's in a human brain, then it's going to be able to, to take incoming, you know, patterns and do any kind of behavior, uh, that a human being can do.
And, uh, what I'm interested in seeing next is basically internal representations, volumetric, uh, representations of audio, video, gustatory, all kinds of, um, representations for a computer to refer to and sense within its own artificial mind and sort of communicate to us what it's, uh, representing to itself.
And that, I believe, will be a step towards a conscious computer.
I'm just going to propose something, uh, I, I'm just interested in your reaction to this, just whatever it, it may be, um, just to kind of get an idea of your, how it is that you, you can see this.
And, and, and so I'm going to make it, uh, what you might consider an odd move.
I'm going to talk about viruses, right, which are in the end, just, you know, in the case of, let's say the beta coronavirus that now assails us, just a single-stranded, uh, RNA, right?
So it is essentially code and that code, uh, mutates over time, uh, in interaction with, uh, with an environment and can develop all sorts of what in the end look like cunning and ingenious strategies for defeating, uh, very complex aspects of the human immune system.
So disabling the production of, uh, you know, macrophages and nitric oxide and, um, increasing levels of thrombin, all, all of these just accreted, um, over, um, you know, uh, this kind of recursive trial and error, you know, uh, essentially just, you know, uh, process of evolution.
Much like, uh, occurs with, uh, let's say a, uh, you know, a deep reinforcement agent that's just being trialed to perform a particular task and that task can be out in the world, right?
So if that task can incorporate all the same kind of noise and variability that will occur, um, with a virus, uh, in a host, do you see a virus as something that's capable of coming up with something novel?
Um, and if the virus was originally programmed by evolution, um, that it then is able to develop things which are astonishingly novel, right?
It can jump to entirely different species.
It can develop different methods for attack, attacking, uh, complex organs to infiltrate them and to distribute itself.
Do you see that as something, I mean, you wouldn't argue, I'm assuming that a virus is conscious,
but it certainly does things which are mesmerizingly ingenious.
Um, I'm just curious what your reaction to that is.
It's code basically.
Well, I agree with you, but the, the code is non-local.
The virus, uh, makes the cell, uh, do the work for, for on its behalf.
Um, and then we have inside, uh, what's called molecular storm around the motion of water molecules that are bombarding it.
So you can think of that as a, um, adversarial network that is trying all kinds of, uh, permutation.
Um, so yeah, that's, that's, that's pretty sophisticated system, but it's non-local.
Um, I, I would suggest the book, um, it's called the plight of the living dead that describes non-local decisions made by insects.
Um, and, and, I mean, a simple example will be a type of wasp that, um, has surgical precision in injecting into the brain of a caterpillar.
Uh, some kind of a, I don't know what it is, some kind of neuro agent that paralyzes it.
Then it goes and injects it, its eggs into the caterpillar.
Um, the eggs are fed by the caterpillar.
Then, um, the, uh, future wasps, um, it is at some point, uh, an acid that breaks through the skin of the caterpillar.
They come out, um, and, and, and this is all with, uh, extremely sophisticated precision in, in many steps.
Um, the book is full with examples that are non-local, and they cannot be explained with simple computation.
Can I ask a question, just what you mean?
But, so, in the case of Icumonidae, uh, parasitic wasps, um, Latin term, Icumonidae, that you just explained, what does non-local mean?
Uh, it, it, it means that, um, it cannot be explained by a single individual that belongs to the ensemble.
So, like, um, it, it causes effects that are not explainable by the action of one, um, member of the ensemble.
So, the effect.
So, not by one individual wasps.
There is a, there is a, yeah, there is an orchestration that is beyond the single wasp.
And it cannot be explained, uh, by, by the means that we have of locality.
And there are many examples in, in actual living nature for that.
So, I don't understand how it works.
If I can, if I can return then, because, yeah, that's very, very useful as a, as a model.
So, if I can return then to Max's point and say that we have, you know, like, uh, AlphaGo, uh, in these tournaments with itself,
tournaments against other players, developing novel strategies, uh, none of these are in any of the instances of AlphaGo, uh,
uh, that are, uh, in its initial versions until it evolves in successive tournaments in the same way that Icumonidae, uh, evolved, uh, in successive tournaments against tarantulas and caterpillars and the like.
Right. It's, uh, kind of, uh, uh, niche construction and co-evolution.
It's, it's, uh, code evolving over time, essentially.
Right.
Well, it's, it's.
Can I ask, sorry, just, just, uh, to, to understand Dexter's point and, and Max's, um, so how do you, you, you, you mentioned, you mentioned the emergence of spontaneity, spontaneous behavior.
Okay. Uh, what's your take on how this phenomenon would happen? We, we've, let's, let's take the AlphaGo example, you know, learning by itself. What is it due to then?
Sorry, with what learning by itself?
Oh, sorry. If, if not deterministic, um, so are we, are we saying randomness is, is part of, uh, creativity, even by a computer?
Well, it's actually our perception of it, right? So it looks incredibly creative. Uh, I think, Ivan, you, you'd agree with this, right?
So if we, I don't mean to keep like, uh, um, you know, just like comping, uh, deep mind the whole time, but, but, uh, so with their initial, uh, you know, kind of breakout, uh, you know, uh, reinforcement learning agent that developed this novel strategy of always just, uh, you know, the game breakout, right?
Just trying to knock out the side bricks and then to get the puck to bounce around. And this was, uh, you know, a strategy not contemplated by humans, but, um, eventually the agent,
arrived at it looked incredibly creative. I would agree with you, Ivan, that this was in the initial conditions. This evolved deterministically. Um, but nevertheless, it looks incredibly creative.
And so I would say our description of what looks ingenious and creative and novel and thought out is, yeah, it can proceed, uh, from, you know, determinism. We, we, we may indeed exist in a deterministic universe. We, we may not, but, um, what we determined to be, uh, or rather what we ascribe to be creative, we know can evolve from purely deterministic processes.
Okay. I think I understand a little better now. Thank you. Yeah. Like, I mean, the term creativity is really just a label that we use to describe results that impress us and that, that are unexpected to some extent and ingenious, but it, but there's no magic there. It's just a label that we, we, we give to, you know, sometimes a child can stumble upon, uh, uh, a, a good solution and, and it seems creative. I mean, it's, it's, it's, there's no, the creative, creativity is more of a label than a description of anything.
Any like, uh, underlying process that that's like a special type of thought. I think, I don't know if, if I'm, maybe it's getting, basically. Yeah. Uh, Dexter, um, uh, it's still true though, that the, um, alpha goal or the, uh, protein folding, uh, machine, um, they're executing a very well-known algorithms program by humans in the following sense.
Uh, it will either do, um, uh, uh, reinforcement, uh, or you'll do, um, Monte Carlo research. Um, it will, it will, um, it will, um, right. I mean, it, it basically solves, um, the, uh, uh, Markov chains, um, equations in order to find the, the, uh,
the highest probability of success in so many steps, et cetera, et cetera. These are not things that the machine is conscious about. It was the human who decided this is going to be the objective function.
We're going to be, well, maybe I should just open the, uh, artificial intelligence book on, on, uh, I mean, is anyone claiming that alpha goal is conscious?
Yeah. I don't think anybody can, can claim that alpha goal is conscious. It still needs an objective function, but I, I've been, I think like, we're, we're probably violently in agreement about a lot of things because I think like, yeah, the current state of AI is rather disappointing in that it's not, uh, we're not using the right techniques because I agree that like these, these, uh, procedural, um, uh, procedures and types of knowledge representation.
that we've come up with today are, are rather, um, let me, let me, they're, they're, they're, they're individual dead ends and, and what we need to like, we, we don't have computers that can think analogically.
And, and that's like our special skill is, but that doesn't mean that we will, that we will never be able to make computers that can think analogically.
It simply means that we don't have good enough theories about what it means to, to represent common sense, everyday knowledge, and to create the kind of, um, procedures
that we need to operate on that knowledge, and, and having very diverse cognitive architectures that can, can, can do the things that we do.
Right.
Look, look at the top, look at the top of the page.
It says artificial consciousness, right?
The word consciousness is there.
And my point for all of this, and, uh, I take, uh, Mika's criticism, uh, as valid, um, is that whatever we are saying is written on the pages of the book by,
uh, Russell and Norway, the new version, and it's like, uh, chapter 16, 17, and 18 of how to make, um, alpha goal, do the things that you do.
And it says making simple decisions, the basic of utility theory, utility function, multivariate utility functions, decision network, chapter 17, making complex decisions, sequential decision process.
Sure, sure, sure, right?
So, it, it, it's all there, and it's all done by humans, and, and, it's very sophisticated modeling, and very sophisticated, uh, uh, math.
Um, and at the end, uh, the behavior is, like, very intelligent.
It can beat humans, uh, left and right.
Right, and I'm not going to argue that you cannot get spontaneously, spontaneous decision, and that injecting randomness is not going to reduce overfitting, et cetera, et cetera.
But what I was saying is that the prerequisite for all of this happening is the human consciousness that came up with a Markov decision process, and, and Markov chains, and Monte Carlo decision trees, and all of these that makes.
We can all agree, I think we all agree, I think we all agree, I agree, so to go to the room title, if I can just say, if, if, if I can just say, oh, sorry, yeah, I was going to say there are lots of people joined, so maybe let's give other people a chance to speak, sorry, uh, if that was, uh.
Yeah, all right, so to go to the room title, if I can just say, gentlemen, please, I have been listening for a long time, um, I have considered, um, deeply what has been said, and I have come with, to a conclusion that I would like to share.
I think that this discussion is possible, uh, because the participants are not themselves conscious of consciousness.
Um, there is an argument of how to make a machine behave like a man, decide something, but it is so far away from the experience of consciousness that I am, that it's a bit, it's a bit, um, it's a bit illogical.
So, even though there is a lot of reasoning and a lot of logic involved in this discussion, the fundamental truth, from my point of view, is that we are not conscious of consciousness enough to perceive the discussion to be a lot of haughtiness.
Um, and, and that's not to take away from the prowess of our computational capacity or our ability, um, to, to imitate what we perceive to be each other's consciousness.
I hope that lands somewhere, um, and I want to thank everybody for their great enthusiasm and, uh, and remind each other that perhaps we are not really aware of ourselves yet.
Thank you so much.
Good evening, sir.
So I think there's a way of tackling this question systematically is artificial consciousness possible.
Well, we haven't figured out how to do it yet, but, uh, do people take the position that it's not possible or just that we haven't figured it out yet?
No, I think, I think, Paul, uh, to answer briefly, uh, we are not yet even in agreement on the multiple definitions of the term.
And I think this is part of the, uh, heated discussion.
Uh, and then the other part is, uh, uh, uh, people disagreeing on the, on the technology and the inputs of consciousness, uh, during the process of building computers, which are deterministic and so on.
But what I'd like to do is since, since then the room has doubled in size, uh, at least.
So I'd like, I'd like to give an opportunity to, to new, to new speaker to speak, uh, do a PTR, run a PTR.
And, um, uh, I could see that Roy seems to be the new speaker.
Hello, everybody.
So hi, Roy.
Thanks for having me.
I'm just catching up.
Uh, to be sorry, I don't think Paul has a chance to speak.
And I haven't actually had a chance to make a position yet.
Yeah.
So, uh, if we could give Paul a chance.
Okay. Fair enough, Paul.
Let's Paul.
Paul, please go ahead.
I didn't mean to cut you off.
Please go ahead.
And then, uh, we'll follow the role.
Sure.
And I say this from the perspective that we've been running a conversation series on, uh, the intersection between AI and neuroscience and consciousness and having, uh, several, uh, researchers who are studying the neuroscience of consciousness, uh, and exploring, uh, the nature of consciousness and machines.
So that's, uh, the context, uh, for my comments.
So there's, um, there is a definition of consciousness that's used in the neuroscience study of consciousness, which is, I guess, the consciousness that the brain does.
And if we think of the brain as a biological machine, then that definition of consciousness is probably the one that we'd want to use for understanding artificial consciousness.
And, um, the, the framing that people use for that is, um, having perceptual awareness, uh, that is having some kind of interior phenomenology.
And, uh, you know, whatever it is that, you know, when you're wake up in the morning from dreamless sleep, uh, and, you know, reality, you know, turns on and you look out and you can see the world.
Um, the medical definition of consciousness, I think that's what is often used in the scientific study of consciousness.
And there's, uh, some scientific conferences on it that, um, kind of use that framing.
So if you want to say one of the obstacles is, uh, a definition, that's maybe one definition to work with.
I want to connect with, I want to add to that.
Does everyone agree that if there were an artificial, uh, construct that humans could derive, which could perform, uh, or, or rather, in here, uh, that state that Paul just referred to, that we would consider that to be conscious.
I certainly would, um, if, if, if, if everyone's happy with that, I think we can proceed.
I, I agree with that, but I want to add to that.
Can I, can I, can I jump in real quick?
Can I, can I jump in real quick on that?
Uh, hi, this is Frank.
Um, just like, um, just from the point of consciousness, like, we still have Nazis or...
You're a muscle in a bit, uh...
Hello, can you hear me?
Hello?
Oh, there you go.
Okay, hi, yeah.
Just from the point of first, just consciousness, like, human consciousness, I think that's something we're still trying to understand
in a scientific point of view, because, like, my, like, you know, I'm conscious right now, but I can't, I can't prove how you're conscious, right?
Or anybody in this room.
That's the thing, like, that's hard, because, like, I can look at something, and I can be conscious of one thing, right?
And, and, like, you know, and, but I can't prove how you're conscious, right?
So, and the fact of, if we can create an artificial conscious, uh, I think that's, I, I believe we can probably get to artificial intelligence, but since we still can't even prove how we get consciousness, I think, uh, it will not be possible.
So, I'll say that right now.
So, I, I wanted, can I, can I, can I go next?
Sorry?
Can I go next, Dexter?
No, I think, I think we need, we really need to move on to let somebody have an opportunity to speak, and that would, that would be Rory.
Yeah, I think, Mika has been trying to talk.
Mika or Mika has been waiting.
Okay.
Um, this is my, this is Mika here.
No, no, no, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Mika has spoken.
Mika, you, you'll be speaking very shortly.
I think that the order I've got in front of me, I've got Rory, I've got Max, who's already spoken for like half of that show, and then Chris, who's already spoken, and then F, who's already spoken, Mika, who's already spoken, Mika, who's already spoken, and then I've got Marina, and then Eugene.
So, I think it's on to Rory, unless somebody sees the list, uh, differently.
Hi, everybody.
If anyone wants to speak before me, I have no problem waiting.
Um, I don't need to speak right now.
Okay, that's, okay, that's fine.
If you want to hand over your time, that's fine.
So, the next I've got on the list is Marina, who I haven't heard yet, if she's here.
Yes, I am.
Hi, everyone.
Very interesting discussion.
Um, I, mine are not comments, mine are more questions, and I think I have two of them.
One, I think, would be directed more to Dexter and one to Max, but anyone who could contribute, obviously, I'd love to hear from.
My first question regarding, um, um, spontaneity in machines, and specifically AlphaGo.
Obviously, we've come a long way since Deep Blue.
Um, but, um, so, I understand how AlphaGo, I don't, I'm not a programmer.
I understand the premise of how it sort of came about.
And my question is this.
If we were to replicate the same process, if we were to create an Alpha, or recreate an AlphaGo from scratch.
So, essentially, feed it the rules of chess, and let it play itself a bazillion times, and, uh, learn from playing itself.
Um, the final product that we would end up with, would it be completely identical to the AlphaGo we have, or could it potentially be different from it?
No, I don't know.
No, I don't know.
No, I don't know.
No, I don't know.
No, I don't know.
I'm sorry?
Somebody has the mic on.
Uh, let me check who does it.
Please carry on, Maria.
Okay.
Uh, thank you.
And my second question is this.
Um, so, suppose we're able to create a machine, uh, that replicates the way the brain works as closely as possible.
In terms of how it receives, um, sensory stimuli, how it process, how it engages in information processing, um, whatever it is that happens in the brain.
Like, suppose we create a machine that is able to replicate all of that.
Do you think that consciousness would necessarily emerge in that machine?
And one, and I understand that consciousness has very different levels and sort of facets to it.
The one I'm particularly interested in is subjective experiences.
As in, you know, like you, any, like you could have a machine that like you insert a probe into a pineapple and it does a chemical analysis and says, yes, this is a pineapple.
Or a machine that, you know, um, sees an object through a video and identifies the color red.
Um, but that seems very distinct from the subjective experience that we have of what it's like to see red and what it's like to taste pineapple.
That is beyond just merely identifying it as such.
It's a distinct experience.
Do you think that would necessarily emerge from the physical makeup of the machine that is basically very similar, if not a copy of the brain?
I'd like to take the second question.
So I can answer the first question.
Yeah, go ahead guys.
Yeah.
The first question is just as Ivan said, if it's a Turing machine, it's going to play out the same way every time.
Um, there are ways that you can render, uh, you know, um, something, uh, essentially unpredictable.
Uh, you can add, uh, you know, chaos or noise into a process and, uh, come up with things which are even at the level of our potential to measure them at the plant length.
Uh, you're spontaneous.
Um, but, uh, in the end, uh, the kind of spontaneity that we're referring to is, I think, as, uh, Max, uh, said rather eloquently is, is just this thing that we think is spontaneous and creative and novel.
Or it may be the case that even, uh, you know, the, the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel was just a deterministic evolution of physics.
And we think it's incredibly creative, but this is just a description that we as deterministic machines give to, uh, that, uh, that phenomenon.
So it could be the same, um, but that doesn't make it any more or less, uh, creative.
That's why I asked the first question.
Thank you.
Yeah.
On the second question.
Um, yeah, I would say, yeah, absolutely.
If, if, uh, we had a machine that modeled, uh, like everything our brain does, then it would have subjective experience.
Um, I would go even further to say that I don't believe it's necessary that we model the brain to do that in the same way that it's not necessary that we, you know, copied a bird in order to.
We've to create, uh, a flying machines.
And so I think it's possible to, to, to, to, to understand aspects of intelligence, knowledge representation, and great machines that can think analogically and that they can, um, have models of themselves and have self re and reflect on their models of themselves and, and have all of the things that we do without actually copying what the brain does.
I don't think that's the only way forward.
And, um, if I may go a little bit further about this notion of qualia.
Yeah.
So the idea that like, when we see this, this color red and that's this, it's like this very irreducible subjective thing, I think that's a wrong idea.
And, um, and it's not really supported by neuroscience.
And so like what, like I see a lamp on the table in this room and that perception seems utterly simple to me.
It's so direct and it's so immediate that the process seems quite irreducible.
But if, um, you just look at it and it's there, it's this green lamp, but like today we know much more about what actually happens when I see this lamp.
And it involves processes in many parts of the brain and in many billions of neurons.
And so the idea that there's this movie and there's some observer in their head, it seems so direct and simple, but we, we know that it's, it's nothing like that.
That like what, like we know a lot about perception and it's not simple and direct it's complex and indirect like signals come into our eyes and our ears and our nose and they undergo many transformations.
Um, there's bottom up signals that interact with top down signals about like expectations and these signals reach many different parts of the brain.
And what emerges isn't a simple image for someone to watch, but a multi-layered sets of representations, um, that are infused with memories and assumptions and expectations.
And so I guess I can just start to back off, but like this, this idea of comparing, like, you know, this irreducible subjective, um, uh, qualia it's, it's, it's like comparing a Tesla to a brick and then looking, it's like saying like this, this sophisticated car that self autonomous vehicle.
It's, it's, it's, it's like really a dumb brick that has no moving parts.
And then how can we explain how this dumb brick could move around and avoid obstacles?
Uh, I, I, maybe that's, maybe I'm, I'm, I'm up too late and I'm starting to, uh, articulate.
I get what Max is saying.
I'd like to respond to, I'd like to respond to Max in the context of what the previous speaker, the speaker right before Max, uh, was saying.
I've been trying to manage the stage and the room, so I don't know exactly who that was, but I just wanted to confirm.
Dexter.
Uh, was who? Dexter?
Yeah.
Oh, okay.
Hey, so, um, the question to you is, and it's probably simple, yes or no, is that do you believe in a purely deterministic universe then?
Well, I have no particular position. The universe could be deterministic. It may be, uh, somewhat undeterministic or non-deterministic. I think it's, we have, have good evidence. I think it's at least partially deterministic.
And determine it.
All right. Well, uh, Kyler, what do you think about, like, instituting a PTR order? Because there's so many people on stage who have not yet had their chance to speak their mind.
Yeah.
Uh, yeah, no, for sure. So I think that, uh, on stage that have not spoken, uh, maybe we can hold off on, uh, bringing new people up just so that we, uh, getting a little bit crowded on here.
Um, and I want to make sure we don't miss new ones. So, uh, we can just, uh, can I clarify something just, just in a sentence before we move on? Is that okay?
So I wasn't saying, I wasn't talking about the observer in the head kind of experience because that's observer would require an observer in its head and so on ad infinitum.
So it was more of a, like, but like, it's, it's a Polly issue. It's, I think you answered it, but I wasn't trying to say that there's an observer in the head that's, you know, experiencing the world. That doesn't make sense to me, but thank you.
All right.
Yeah, I just, yeah, I wanted to address that often there's this, this notion of like qualia is, is like...
See, how is Max, how is Max in Dexter dominating the conversation?
Sorry. Sorry, sorry.
So, uh, so we're going to do this because there's a lot of people on stage right now. Um, can you, uh, just flash your mic if you do want to speak, um, on anything that's been said or just the topic in general? Just flash your mic and I can, uh, write it down for a cue.
All right. So I got Ramsey.
