=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0294y Opioids Neurons Network
First recorded: 2021-05-12T02:20:12.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/e3b35f2b-75de-48d2-b8cc-3ce6a8cc31e7
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Opioids is to, you can sort of do an adult response as to how fast it slows down relative to the amount of opioid drug administered.
And it's a good way to isolate the intrinsic properties of the network, independent of the co-founding factors of the other areas within the brain.
And so, because any sort of brain region that you're looking at has a number of incoming inputs into it, right, from the pons or from the midbrain or any of the other regions nearby that are sending axonal projections into the network.
And when you're trying to understand, like, the ventral respiratory network in and of itself, you obviously have to isolate it from the rest of the factors.
And then so, once you understand how it itself works, then you can sort of layer on top of how, in an integrative network or an integrative system, then it plays a role.
And so, it's always one of those, when you isolate the network and do a network, or excuse me, isolate just the ventral respiratory network and you do the studies,
if you, if it goes to some more of a translational researcher, you know, even like myself, they always kind of want to know what's the implications into a whole animal system.
And if it doesn't match up, what are the reasons for that?
And certainly we addressed that, and I think there's been a little bit of a misinterpretation from the reviewers, which is obviously our fault.
So, you know, we've reworded a lot of that for this next submission.
But at the same time, if it goes to sort of a neuroscience, a pure neuroscientist, they want some more of the patching type of heavy stuff.
And there's certainly some of that in there, but it's not a pure neuroscience paper in that you're using neuroscience techniques to gain insight into a neurophysiologic type of system.
And so it's the same thing that we end up fighting a lot of times in our manuscripts is that it just sort of fits in the physiology camp as far as the control of respiration.
But it also fits into the neuroscience camp because we're studying the brains.
And so, yeah.
Anyway.
So I was going to tell you, whenever you get that thing published, I'd love to see it because – so one of the annoying things, like in my world, right, in the ICU setting, well, we would look at that paper, and I can imagine some of my colleagues being like, oh, we already knew that for decades.
Like, opioids lower, like decrease the respiratory rate, which would – like it drives me crazy all the time because part of the problem is that I deal with a lot of pulmonologists who will basically – the term we use, colloquially, snow, right?
Like they snow the patient, put them on a ton of opioids and just like – just so that they don't wake up so they're not too like – make too much of a ruckus.
But then by the – the more you put them on opioids, the longer their respiratory drive is down.
So the longer it takes for them to actually generate the appropriate respiratory rate to get them off being intubated.
And so it's like a constant struggle.
And if I knew what the actual like dose response curve – even if it weren't animals, right, like to say, hey, listen, this is proven science.
It's published.
Take them off the dam.
Please take them off the fentanyl drip so that I can just like – because they're always worried about pain responses and the patients are on a lot of pain.
And so they literally like – they fill them with all this like narcotic and then you can't get them off the vent because there aren't so much narcotic.
So it actually – I think whenever you guys publish it, I think it will generate a lot of interest, at least in my world.
Yeah, and that's – I mean that's the kind of the hope and the – you know, the whole premise of the story itself is the variability across different individuals.
And so they're across populations or across the same individual, so inter and intra individual variability.
And so, you know, the idea – the whole premise of the paper was that we can take these isolated networks.
So basically we gave some mice dose response of opioids and we got the opioid sensitivity curves, you know.
But all of the mice obviously show a wide range of variability, which is the same thing that we saw when we did it in the goats and the rats and the cats.
And then when you look at humans as well, and we wanted to know whether or not it's a property of that isolated respiratory network.
And so we took the brain stems out and gave them, you know, a dose response of opioids in a dish.
And just as the animals showed in vivo, in vitro, you also get this huge amount of variation.
You know, some are – some of the slices are dead at some subthreshold dosages of opioids, whereas other ones you can pump up to, you know, in your –
I guess it would be equivalent to your world of like 500 mgs per gig morphine.
Right.
And you have absolutely no response.
Oh, absolutely.
And you guys see that in the clinic all the time, just variability.
And so what we were doing was we were taking sort of the intrinsic bursting properties, the neurons within there, sort of this persistent sodium current, pumping it up and down within the network,
as well as changing the amount of synaptic excitability, if you will, of the excitatory drive within the network,
and seeing how you can change the state of the network.
And then we used some basically multi-array electrode recordings and stuff to look at the state of the network.
And depending on how you change the state of the network, you could modulate the sensitivity of that single slice to be either more sensitive or less sensitive to the opioids.
And so kind of making this argument that the same brain doesn't have a fixed property of sensitivity to opioids is based on these incoming properties, which is not necessarily a secret.
You know, we've all known this.
It's just that there's no great way to show it.
And this is just showing that some of that variability is an inherent property of the network.
So, well, but the reason why I think it's so important is like, so with that opioid epidemic, like one of the things commonly now that we have clinically is that we just put out, you know, naloxone, which is, you know, supposed to be this opioid antagonist, right?
And it's not entirely foolproof, but what we'll do is, you know, if a person's snowed or let's say they're popped up on heroin or let's say fentanyl off the street, you know, whereas there are different, like, I guess, like systematic arguments to be made at a public policy level to have, like, naloxone available, you know, in common, like, you know, pharmacies, et cetera.
And some of these, I think, don't, you know, depending on how much people are overdosed, right?
Like, it doesn't change the intrinsic, like, respiratory rate drive being down.
And part of the time, I often think we under-intubate patients when they're out in the field and they're overdosed on opioids, like synthetics, especially, like, in the Mideast, like, you know, people like Virginia or, like, West Virginia, where there's been this opioid epidemic.
I think because what ends up happening is these people, they're snowed, they get a slug of naloxone in the field or Narcan, and then, you know, the respiratory rate drive goes up a little bit, but then it comes back down.
And eventually, they do get intubated.
And so, I think, you know, if we knew more about this dose-response curve, you know, potentially, you know, trying to, like, titrate out whether or not to use things like Narcan, you know, in the field would be more useful.
But, yeah, I mean, honestly, it's, like, it's an under-discussed topic in the clinical realm that if we did have, like, an actual animal model that showed the dose-response curve back out and published, I can actually start having, like, more substantive conversations.
Because when I'm in the ICU, I often constantly argue with some of my pulmonology colleagues about, like, they just have patients on too many opioids, honestly.
Yeah, I mean, obviously, the other idea, too, or the implications of it is, you know, if we understand what makes the respiratory network isolated and self-sensitive, we can start to figure out how you can maintain that analgesia without having as much of a respiratory drive effect.
Exactly.
And so if we can either administer a dual-compound agent, either through with naloxone, or you get that immediate reversal of the naloxone, but you also have sort of a longer-lasting effect so that you don't get that second wave that always comes through, or with co-administration with the opioids themselves.
But we'll see.
Very exciting, man.
Cool.
Yeah.
So the hyperpolarization-induced inward non-selective cation current, so any time that the neurons hyperpolarize, they bring in, if they express these HCN channels, which are just proteins that bring in cations, basically, right, they just move ions, essentially.
And whenever you get a hyperpolarization of a cell, it brings cations in to repolarize the cell.
And sort of, we were just playing around with modifying the amount of IH current within the network and showing how it can change the responsiveness to opioids.
And so it was sort of building this concept that the network itself has, I guess, and I'll be hung out on a string here, but a buffering type of mechanism where even though the rhythm itself isn't changed, the ability for it to defend against perturbations is altered.
And so you can have, you know, the same breathing rhythm, and you wouldn't, you would think that the person is breathing the same, but under the hood, you know, they might be more on that level of instant, right on the edge of instability, where it doesn't take much to kick them out, where they stop breathing, versus a, let's say, a network that's more able to absorb some of those perturbations.
Nick, it's wicked smart.
Nick, it's simple stuff.
It's just like, with any neuroscience paper, the concept itself is not all that complex.
You know, you have a network that produces rhythmic bursts, and one network is able to absorb a perturbation, where another one does, you know, the same perturbation, all of a sudden sends it awry, and then you have no rhythmic bursting anymore.
So you can think of it almost like in terms of a heart, you have to have this rhythmic synchrony.
And, you know, with the same drug, same dosage, in one case, you can have two hearts that are beating at 60 beats per minute with the same firing amplitudes, let's say.
And you give a certain dosage of a drug, one is able to essentially shake it off with no effect, whereas the other one just all of a sudden goes.
Just a general comments, because, so, as a layperson, so, I heard this, uh, after you say, that's the, also did the same thing with, with an AI-40, which is a halo reduction, which shuts it off.
And, uh, you know, so we, what we did was, we essentially mapped out in the, in the respiratory network, the amount of cells and the type of, that's interesting.
So, all these got done in, like, a vivo, like, yeah, in vivo and in vitro.
So, and so, basically, you just really quickly isolate it, stimulate it, and you can also, we also did it in vivo, it's not as pretty, because in vivo, attaching is inevitably a little bit more dirty.
Um, but, when you do it, you just have to rely a little bit more on the latency of activation following the light.
So, when you shine the light, you know, there's a little bit of, if it's, if it's actually expressing the channel rhodopsin, meaning that it's a opioid receptor positive neuron, you get, essentially, an instantaneous response.
Um, whereas, if it's just synaptically integrated, or synaptically innervated by a mu opioid receptor positive neuron, when you shine the light, it will also fire action potentials by merit of exciting the neuron, you know, upstream that is innervating it.
But, there will be a slight, uh, latency between the response.
And so, it's not as perfect in vivo, but it still works.
How many, like, in vitro, uh, versus in vivo, how many, uh, neurons are you, uh, I mean, is it, uh, are, are you free in, in, in, in, in, in, you know, to, in granularity, or you're limited by, by material, like, say, like, tools and stuff?
We're limited by the, I think for this paper, we did 350 neurons, something like that.
So, we, we did quite a bit, uh, basically, you know, within the network, there's pretty much, like, four main firing phenotypes, pretty much across the brain, when you synaptically isolate the neurons, it's either quiet, or it's tonically firing action potentials, or it's bursting.
And so, it's, I shouldn't say four, it's actually pretty much, mainly, like, three types of phenotypes that you get of neurons when they're synaptically isolated.
And so, you just grab a, a huge sample of each of those, and, of course, you're, you're assuming a, a bit of homogeneity across those neuronal populations, which is not true.
Um, but, in, in, in lieu of, you know, uh, doing, like, a patch-to-seq type approach, where you patch the neuron, and then when you're done, you suck up the intracellular contents, and then you send it out for RNA-seq to, to get a better proteins in mRNA that it's actually expressing.
Um, just as a, from a little bit more of an in vivo preparation, you get a rough estimate, at least, um, and you assume that there's a known amount of, uh, neuronal phenotypes, or genotypes, I should say, within the, the region that you're looking at.
Have you looked at the astrocyte, uh, calcium waves, or have you heard anything about astrocyte activity related to where you're...
We have a, we have a paper, um, in review right now, looking at astrocyte's role in producing a, a sigh, you know, which, which sounds kind of ridiculous at the, uh, on surface value, but when you take a look at breathing, and you look at sighs, you know, kind of, when you take that big breath, like, ugh, you know, um, there's, there's sort of these consciously induced sighs, which are more behavioral, um, but you also have these subconscious, uh, autonomic sighs that occur within the neck.
And, um, and, um, the, the, the function of them is still somewhat unknown, but at least there's, there's a little bit of evidence to suggest that in any sort of network, uh, you have a bit of irregularity or a bit of entropy within the network, um, and, you know, the, it, being, having a rhythm that is slightly unstable is good because it allows flexibility to be able to increase our breathing rate and decrease our breathing rate, uh, when it's needed, um,
Um, so you don't want to have just a completely, uh, rigid network.
And sometimes just based on the amount of, you know, whatever factors it might be, excitation, inhibition, whatever, or modulation, they can kind of sway the network to be more or less stable, um, you know, just from synchronization from a burst-to-burst type of, uh, regularity.
Can you explain, like, how to, what is the astrocyte, uh, physiology, like, can you guys look at the actual astrocyte, like, anything with imaging, uh, or electrophysiology, or any kind of recordings or anything like that, or just analysis?
Yeah, we did, uh, uh, we did calcium imaging, uh, and we also did object and stimulation of the astrocytes, and so, yeah, the premise was that some of these sighs are produced, um, you know, it's sort of like a resetting mechanism,
because it sends pretty much all the neurons within the network depolarization at the same time, and so they all go into hyperpolarization at the same time, and you sort of reset the network, but we were looking at, uh, calcium imaging to look at the, sort of, calcium waves that move through the astrocytes,
and to see how it correlates with the, um, with the, the, the size and their occurrence, um, and then we were also doing optogenetic stimulation, so we had ALDH-101, which is a pretty typical, um, marker for astrocytes, um, and we did the same thing,
where we would stimulate them and inhibit them, and see how it affects, affected the, uh, rhythmicity of the network, and so whenever you stimulate them,
you get this sort of, you inhibited them, you relatively inhibit the ability for that to occur, and so, that was kind of how we looked at it, and then there was some...
Do you have a two-photon image, multi-photon imaging, uh,
Yeah, yeah, we did, uh, we have a multi-photon scope, and we did, um, we did slice work, and then we also have, uh, in vivo, uh, multi-photon recording,
and so you sort of create an optical window on the ventral surface of the brainstem, and you can,
um, image, um, a decent amount of, of astrocytes or cells if you want, in, uh, in that actual, uh, in vivo animal when it's alive.
Obviously, it has anesthetized, which is a confounding factor, but, um, yeah, there's, there's pretty good resolution in there.
Well, what kind of multi-photon, uh, imaging system do you use?
Uh, we have, uh, an Olympus, and we also have a Zeiss, um, you know, the previous institution I was at had a really nice Leica scope.
I really like Leica, uh, their, their advanced scopes are really nice, um, and the Olympus and the Zeiss are really nice as well,
but, um, I just found, you know, everybody sort of has their, um, control panel that they feel the most comfortable with,
and I just felt like, for me, the, the Leica works best for, for what I use it for, but, yeah.
So you would, you would, um, did you, did you do the, um, what's it called, uh, what's it called, like,
there's, like, a dye that you use to image the calcium, and then, so you, you're able to see the calcium waves,
and, like, in the astrocytes and in the neurons?
Uh, yeah, so you can use some things called Oregon Green or, uh, Fura, um, are, are sort of your typical ones
that you can sort of bathe the, the slice of the brain in, and then be able to image the calcium.
You know, calcium's not too bad, you get the extra boost, because calcium, uh, naturally, um, shines at, like,
around a 488 nanometer wavelength, so you can pick it up relatively well, um, even without any sort of dye,
and the dye just sort of gives you that extra boost to really get some confidence in what you're doing.
Um, but, uh, no, we have, we have, we have, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, blanking on the word.
We have, uh, genetic, um, animals that just naturally, uh, the calcium is, is fluorescent, and so those are...
Oh, yeah, it's like a genetic, uh, variation that actually just makes the calcium itself florescent.
And those look beautiful.
Okay.
Yeah, those are the AI-162, I believe it is.
I don't have to look it up, but, yeah, those ones work amazing.
And it takes so much of the headache that it used to be.
You know, because you used to have to take these slides and slices,
and you had to soak them in the dye and hope that the cells took up some of this dye.
And then there's, you know, this huge rundown over the course of the imaging,
and then you've got to correct for it, and you never know if it's the calcium going away
or if it's just the fact that you're losing some of that dye.
But the new ones with the, I can't believe I'm blanking on it.
I think it's AI-162, and I'm blanking on the name of the actual rhodopsin itself.
But, yeah, they just, the calcium is naturally fluorescent just based on the insertion of that molecule.
Is that published yet, or is that available?
I'm not going to see that.
Yeah, I've been interested in astrocytes and calcium waves for a while.
Yeah, I'm just curious to see.
That's amazing that you actually worked directly with that stuff.
That's pretty cool.
Oh, yeah.
Is it available, or?
Yeah, it's published.
It's widely available.
We just order them from Jack's Labs.
I can send you the actual genetic strain.
We keep a colony of them, and so we have...
No, no, sorry.
I mean the paper.
I mean the research.
Did you publish that?
Is it the published paper?
Ours?
No.
This would be our first paper published with it, and it's still in review.
But the mechanism itself is published already.
Yeah, no, actually, I've been...
I mean, I actually know Carl Deseroth not well, but I crossed paths with him back in the day,
as well as Ed Boyden, the guys who pretty much pioneered that technique.
Yeah, it's just been crazy watching it all.
Are you familiar with those guys, I imagine?
Yeah, I mean I've seen some of their work.
I'll be honest, I suck with names sometimes.
I think they're the ones who actually like pioneered like the channel rhodopsin and like fluorescence.
Like, oh god, what was it?
Specifically, is channel rhodopsin one of the...
Something about like optogenetics and like imaging of different neuronal cells with like two-photon imaging?
Yeah, that's Deseroth's work.
That's Deseroth's work.
Yeah, the channel rhodopsin is the one that you use to excite the cell.
Right.
And the halorhodopsin is the one that you use to incite the cell.
And then you also have some ones that are just purely for marking the cells.
So there's like an AI-14 line.
And I apologize, I don't remember the actual protein name.
But anyways, it's AI-14 and those are used for labeling the whole cytosol of the cells that you're interested in.
And then there's also an AI, I'm blanking on the term.
There's another one that you use to just label the membrane.
So you can get sort of cytosolic or just membrane bound.
So yeah, it's pretty much a playground of the optogenetics now.
And most of them, they're so easy to just keep a colony.
So we have, you know, on hand, we have AI-32s, we have AI-67, we have AI-14s, we have AI-40s.
And all you have to do is just breed it with, because they're all, you can maintain them homozygous.
And so you just breed them with whatever Cree line that you want.
And so, you know, we maintain, I don't know, I think we have like 50 different Cree lines that you can just sort of label whatever type of cells that you want.
And so depending on the experiment that you want to do, you just sort of go down to the animal room and pick your Cree animal and pick your optogenetic line and just breed them.
And then, you know, you get some heads and you back cross them and get some homozygous.
You know, the only thing is that, the only trick that has been giving us a little bit of a struggle sometimes is that whenever the, I shouldn't say whenever,
sometimes when you breed the channelrhodopsin mice with the Cree line of the cell that you're interested in,
what ends up happening is that it'll actually truncate the receptor and insert the channelrhodopsin in place of it.
And so what you end up with is essentially a functional knockout.
And so like, for example, for like our, our opioid receptor mice, when you breed the Oparum-1 Cree mice with the channelrhodopsin mice,
the opioid receptor is no longer expressed.
And so it's fine for like just labeling the cells and seeing how many of them express it because all you're doing is, you know,
stimulating the cell itself.
But if you take those mice and you, let's say you, let's say you have a homozygous line of AI32 Oparum-1 Cree's,
just meaning that all of the opioid positive cells are expressing the channelrhodopsin.
If you would give that animal or that slice opioids, they wouldn't respond to it.
And that's just because they don't have any more functional opioid receptors,
even though you can stimulate all the receptors or stimulate all the neurons that express the opioid receptor, if that makes sense.
Yeah.
Yeah. Wow. That's fascinating. That sounds like you're using, yeah, this is pretty cutting edge techniques.
Pretty cutting edge techniques that you're using. Sounds pretty cool.
But I apologize to just sort of unload and run, but I got a, I got a phone call. I got to jump on.
No, it's super interesting, man. Thank you for sharing all this. This is, it's really cool.
Yeah, definitely. I'll catch up with you guys soon.
Catch up with you later, man.
Anybody else have some cool research? Hopefully you'll chime in.
I'm actually going to bounce also because I have to grab my top 10 technique.
Actual technology, it's been demonstrated, you know, a bunch of times now.
It's pretty much 15 years old, like in terms of what's already been done.
So yeah, but they're definitely way ahead as far as the actual like commercialization, technological and product development aspects,
as well as like the, their starting point is something that's already been replicated, which is a great starting point because there's no risk.
But their kind of long-term implementation is like way out to the future.
You know, they're setting themselves up to like implement tons of possible applications.
Yeah, I mean, there's only six of us in the group right now.
So if everyone wants to un-mic, I think that would be okay.
Well, we actually, there's someone else down there.
Do you want to join us as well?
Yeah, let's have everyone un-mic if you want.
I don't know.
It's up to y'all.
Yeah, no, it's totally convenient.
Basically, yeah, Anil and Toli, do you guys want to introduce yourselves or just say hello or something?
Because I don't think I've seen you guys around.
Yeah, sure thing.
I was actually just wondering, were you guys just talking about some Neuralink thing that Musk is working on?
Is there something that, yeah.
How much money are they like investing into this project?
I don't know if that's public information.
I know Elon Musk has probably put his own money into it.
And I don't think, I think it's a private company and I'm not sure they've published their VC rounds.
Although I haven't really researched the finance end of it.
I know Elon Musk has like pretty deep pockets.
Like he himself put up $100 million recently for like a clean tech decarbonization project.
He's literally cutting a check for $100 million himself.
So, I mean, I don't think, I don't think the money is a limitation on the Neuralink side.
On the 30,000 view, what exactly are they doing that take the scientific ending and basically connecting to the electrical circuit?
Neuralink.
It's basically an implantable brain computer interface.
So, it can decode neuronal activity and stimulate neurons in the brain.
And I think their first version is basically going to enable people's impairments, like paralyzed, to like operate basically an iPhone.
But like through the iPhone, like control anything, control a computer, robotic arm, wheelchair.
So, you'd be able to think and do that.
I actually personally worked on a project that did that in people, but the device was not as streamlined and miniaturized as the Neuralink.
But I worked on a project where people who are severely motor impaired, like quadriplegic, ALS, spinal cord, brainstem stroke, or spinal cord injury, were able to like control a robotic arm or control a computer directly through thought.
So, Neuralink is basically doing that as well.
So, I'm curious where the interface is.
So, just to give you an example, I think it was about 15 years ago, when I was in Illinois, there was this grad student who basically would wear a small ring around his throat.
Speaking, he would just think about they basically will be converted.
So, I'm curious, somewhere in the thing, because those things are all over the place.
So, a chip can't really.
An implantable brain computer interface.
So, this is actually a sensor or chip or wires that go directly into the cortex.
So, they're actually recording from neurons in the brain.
So, the neurons are carrying a lot of information.
And when you have access to the neuron firing rates, you have access to pretty much very high fidelity signal in the brain.
Circuitry.
Smartly connecting the physical circuit with the brain circuitry.
It's a circuit, yeah.
It's an electrical connection that goes in the cortex, in the brain.
And is recording the electrical action potentials from neurons in real time.
So, it's the algorithm that can be the case of neural neutralization, commercialization,
and some specific incremental improvements on the systems.
But for the most part, they're taking a technology that's been quite well established for many years.
And then, they're making it more available for commercialization.
If they end up implementing some of the projects they're claiming to work on, you know, in the real world, then that will be a huge breakthrough as well.
But for the preliminary project, which is like a motor prosthetic device, there's not a lot of major improvements.
But there are some, like, well, the major improvement, I guess, for them is that they're going to have multiple thousand recording units.
Whereas the current systems have, like, typically between 100 to 300 recording sensors, like electrodes.
Their system can have multiple thousand.
So, that's an improvement.
So, what's interesting to you to chat about?
What jives you?
I'm currently, I'm interested in a lot of, well, for the past few years, I was actually doing more, like, activism, social movements, and political stuff.
But I'm phasing out from that area.
And I also research a lot of stuff independently, like, everything from, like, neuroscience to consciousness and even psychic, like, consciousness, but in a very open-minded way.
So, I'm interested in, like, the traditional spiritual esoteric traditions, as well as, like, psychic parapsychology, scientific inquiry into consciousness and psychic phenomena, as well as, like, I kind of research a lot of weird things on the fringes of science.
