b0309y ctpr
(audio note transcription needs fixing)
Neurons Stimulation Electrodes
00:00
World of human body cannot. And also kind of explores the idea in a natural way with the humanity who can exchange electrical electrochemical information with one another and achieve a certain connectivity as a group. To maintain the balance in the environment. So that's almost an example of a science fiction film or shows the positivity.
00:27
It's positive aspect of. Having a certain kind of neural. I'm not I'm optimistic about that idea. I I'd like to say that I am sometimes. I'll be real a book a book kind of book that I'm getting through for example is his is a rhythms of the brain and also I'm alternating that with networks of the brain by Orloff's forms and.
00:56
And I'm listening to I'm reading it on a Kindle and I am got the audio going and but but it's like every 10 minutes I get distracted by something and if I if I could have a neural link that would like sort of like predict when I'm about to get distracted and like pull me back in and and help me to focus that on the book, you know, basically by by creating a simulation that countered that distraction like before I became aware of it and and because I'm sure the neural activity of the distraction is happening before.
01:25
I become conscious of it, right? And so the machine would notice before. And I've also like so I've had I've had dreams where like I realized that the dream when the dream is going really well it's because my my mind somehow wants me to stay asleep but then when the dream starts to go really bad it's like it's um, it's like my mind wants me to wake up so it's like so those so like if the narrowing could watch those dreams it could figure out, you know, maybe strategies to keep me focused or to to pull me out of out of being focused.
02:02
Hey, I'm just. I just wanted to mention I oh and you just left again when we were talking about neural chemistry earlier. I had paying someone who's quite knowledgeable, but I see that they. Kind of popped in and left. Sorry. Who was it? I'm Ramsey. Oh, no, he's outside.
02:27
Oh, there you are. Sorry, I'm not looking at the I only like glanced at it. I'm sorry. See there's those cognitive difficulties again. Let me Tom just what about neural chemistry. We talked about Well, I'm sorry that Bob can be street could change that how it's going to influence the exterior information and everything and personally to make there's a lot of hyperuption but really don't think that it's very far and that maybe in the future you'll be able to download maybe falling abides, maybe now we can download what the, Someone concludes to me.
03:18
Right now is just reading data right just like signal can see where it was happening we can see positioning stuff things we can surely influence certain pattern brain yeah the problem is that how they are how the the question I think was how to build chemistry would react to the outer stimulus the device was built with the intention of being capable of doing closed loop therapies, so that means also stimulating your brain and watching to study with the stimulation is doing.
03:56
I think stimulation before it's truly effective is gonna be a lot quite a bit longer than just there's been so much research on reading neural activity and then so so that's come a long way already so they're kind of on the shoulders of giants as far as that's concerned so and and all of these old tech has been using you know, 100 or 200 channels to do it and so now they just engineered this amazing thing that can just implant tons and tons of probes so it's a so basically it's like, Okay now that we can increase the numbers what what can the existing tech kind of give us already and so and you know like that they're accomplishment it gets I think the things that get most hyped are the things that are at least impressive but the things that get least typed are actually pretty present so they're actually putting all 2048 channels there they're communicating it through bluetooth, which is is pretty cool like Bluetooth can't handle that or at least what I think is Bluetooth 2.0 can't handle that amount of information, but they're bidding the spikes into I don't know like five milliseconds so that way it can the, Handle it so like that's never been done before and science, you know, that's and that's pretty cool but yeah, I think stimulating is is still quite a while away.
05:18
I mean if they're gonna mask distribute this product what they're just gonna like tell everyone in the world oh you can't use this stimulating part of this product and everyone's just gonna obey them well the thing with simulating is is a you can stimulate a contact but if you're not so when you're reading an electrical signal the loudest part of the cell is like think of it as a loudest part of the cell is the axon hillock it has the most like voltage-gated channels and so that's like sending out most of the most of the the the kind of signal that it's picking up the problem is if you start stimulating.
05:53
An area you're not just near a cell body or an axon hill like you're near like hundreds of axons and those axons are coming from cells from very near to like extremely far away so you stimulate one contact you're not just gonna stimulate one cell or five cells around it or ten cells around it you're gonna be stimulating like 18 cells around it, you know ten cells on the left 15 cells on the right two cells like a mile away basically and you know, like you you're just gonna be you don't have any control when you start stimulating using the you know, like, Well, this is something this is similar to the two pharmacological manipulation.
06:34
It's a real blunt and instrument. Absolutely yeah, that's that's what I'm saying and it's it's even more random because with pharmacology you sort of like the drug kind of goes everywhere evenly. And this is say, we're probably much further along on the far farmers logical and then we are from.
06:54
Say something like the Utah really like obviously we can do a lot that you tolerate which one thing I don't think people are pointing out enough is that what it seems that neural link has been able to do is thing like neural prosthetic manipulation like we saw with with the the the chimp recently playing pong but it's it's hopefully not having the same types of deleterious effects that the Utah array has it for people that aren't familiar we usually plug the Utah array people that are you know, missing.
07:29
The limbs and say like a quadriplegic label to operate a prosthetic limb and you know the I've seen videos of monkeys feeding themselves using this and and that's kind of the more impressive thing because the Utah race is huge machine can't just walk around with it and and that's that's one of that's one of the advancements that I'm seeing with with neural link that's that's extraordinarily impressive.
07:56
Not the actual neuroplastic manipulation, but the fact that it's so small. Yes the Utah array for the no is also part of the Black Rock array or I was calling it the brain gate device earlier and that's just 10 by 10 contacts the electrodes. I believe are 400 microns so like pretty thick but their FDA approved and that's where a lot of the energy went for those in like the mid-2000s so this is like almost 20 year old device but it can be used in humans already approved and it's effective at reading out signals and then tons and tons of research have gone into the decoder which has made it.
08:36
Put one or two plants in and and it's pretty effective like locked in patients can now control a cursor and sort of surf the web. Well, the real challenge with the Utah reasons material science is because it almost certainly causes some some damage to the brain with the more you use it.
08:59
Oh, absolutely, yeah. Not as well depends so like I have a bunch of labor I guess cohort made that higher in different monkey labs that use it and sometimes they work great into like six years six or seven or eight but uh, but yeah, there's always gonna be sort of a Cleo scarring and just all the sort of body reactions that occur due to that.
09:24
I don't know how thick the neuroink ones are maybe twenty five microns or so, which is a pretty thin compared to four hundred microns. So those um, and then I think they're using like some sort of I don't know they're using interesting technology lasers. Or something. To to sort of combat the typical immune responses.
09:42
I don't know what they are.
09:47
So what you said about simulating many different neurons not having any control over it and it being a very blunt instrument. I I was I was just reading the the pause section of the the the book rhythms of the brain where they were talking about how if you had if the brain had only excitatory neurons or basically if it if there was no inhibition if then it would just like excite itself, you know, endlessly until it became exhausted and in the whole.
10:20
And so the whole the the the way that the brain is able to sort of orchestrate it's rhythms or basically to have like cycles of of activity that are not out of control is is through the process of inhibition in that involves a lot of interneurons and this is stuff that I'm sort of just learning about but it's like there's this interneuron inhibitory system that is that is helping to sort of regulate.
10:55
Brain activity so as you so you're not just like, you know going into an eplight big seizure every time one part of you gets excited you you have this sort of like this this fate this um. Controlled sequence and it's really like complex and I'm I'm probably messing up the description of it but so I'm just like imagining that if you if you if the if the electrodes in their link really meant that you are creating a lot of excitement in in the brain in a lot of different areas simultaneously.
11:28
I think that would it wouldn't necessarily cause your brain to go out of control but but it might change the the oscillation frequency of your. Of your. Of your brain rhythms which which would be interesting but I but I just wanted to sort of dial down on that and in just ask you if you really know if it's not possible to like for neural length specifically to reduce the amount of electrical stimulation to where you just stereoten like one neuron at a time because that seems like that want to be a feature and it just patient with if it's actually not.
12:09
Okay a cup so. That's the kind of two put different points you made not necessarily related. So yeah the if you have if you over stimulate the brain the the twenty percent of neurons that exist are interneurons, so interneurons are inhibitory the express GABA, they kind of put the brakes on of excitement.
12:32
And so, yes, if you over-stimulate an area you're probably also gonna stimulate some of those inhibitory and neurons and they're gonna over put the brakes on which is gonna even it out. It's something called EI balance excitatory and her joy balance that's talked about so much. In. Neuroscience papers now, um what and so when you say the brain out of control, you know, that's called epilepsy when it's over excited that's not what I meant by lack of control what I've meant by lack of control was laughter spatial control, so you may want to activate a neuron in the location of space that correlates with the left middle finger so that way the person can feel like somebody touched their left middle finger, however, if you put the a very small stimulation there.
13:22
I think people that I read papers 80. By micro volts, I think stimulation which is called a micro stimulation you put it in that very small area. You know, and these are tungsten probe so these so like usually there's probes that either good for reading or good for stimulating and then when you start getting into probes that can do both you're gonna lose you lose a lot there too, but anyway, so if you start stimulating in that area, Let's say you stimulate and what gets activated isn't the cells in that area when it gets activated is the axon of some cell with far away that was maybe going from the medial for brain bundle to like the basic like in acetylcholine cell which is like us, you know and arousal basically something that's completely non-related but because it had a an axon of passage kind of going through that area and that's what you stimulated you're kind of getting the result you didn't want in terms of spatial control that that's what I meant by you don't have that and because Any area has more axons going through it than it has cell bodies you're you're just literally activating, you know, instead of activating the one cell body that you want to reactivating 200 random neurons at random distances away, you know, and and if the probes didn't move around and in the brain then you could just say like okay, it's do we it activates 200 and we figured out like when that helps and when it doesn't we use machine learning and that's fine but because it moves kind of was around in the brain you can't even make use of it because the next time it's activating a another.
14:58
Random set of 200 rounds you know or you turn it down so it's activating a random set of 20 neurons but like because it's constantly moving around you're not getting the same effect whereas if you were recording and even if it's constantly moving around you're basically recording from either the the same cell or the cell right next to it, you know, so you can rough you can get more data out of it that way the stimulation problem it needs an I think it needs a new solution.
15:22
I don't think the solution is gonna be with electrical but but, you know people use electrical stimulation and they they have effects for certain things as just I I know that. Idea where an early wants to go and they want to go into like some sort of very precise like artificial perception thing and that's that's gonna require the kind of stuff.
15:42
I'm talking about where you have like really precise control but if you just want to sort of stimulate in a really rough sense, you know has everyone heard of like a, A. H, I got I lost an annum anyways, if you look at the old stimulation research yeah people have reported when you stimulate the the hand area it feels kind of like it doesn't feel like somebody touched your hand it feels like sort of like a a buzz or something so you know, so like that's the level of of sensory and put that you're gonna get from from just broad electrical stimulation.
16:21
So if Scott is it sort of true in also in a way in a very alignment way that if you're using the sensors that are more developed and I'm talking about the the electrodes here to to sense it's the it's the system it's the machine system that's doing the bulk of the learning whereas if you stimulate you reversing that stimulating even if you to some degree reduce that sort of oversensing or overloading a particular areas that it's almost the the reverse in a big way that it's actually.
16:56
Human brain it's got to do the the rewiring around these new stimuli so that there's a there's even a different biological problem there is that a is that is that true or a mightister talking about no that's true but I think it's also true that the brands always doing learning so even if it's reading a signal your brain your brain is plastic enough to like sort of help it.
17:24
It fire that the it will become plastic to it if the decoder was really crappy and it couldn't adjust to how fast you learned your brain would just learn to like do what the decoder does so even a static decoder like the old 15 year old decoder like if you left it in that long enough your brain would just figure out how to control it too it's basically I think it's more like learning how to play a difficult instrument or something it would learn how to do that but with the new decoders it's learning you to like it's learning your brain as well as far as for stimulation all I meant to say was that.
17:59
The machine learning part. I think will be harder because the oh there's a bigger effect of the electrode moving around in your brain, so it's not affecting the same thing over and over so the machine learning part can't really learn that well.
18:15
This is does that make sense it does it does we've got quite a few new people in the in the room I sort of almost have the sense that some other rooms into that and people come in because we got a little bit of an influx, um, welcome there's a bunch of people that I've shared rooms with before this is a sort of a general chat room on the question would you plug your brain into into your link and I guess at what point you might do that and what ethical and other concerns you might have we started to get into some detail thankfully we got some people in the room who have some expertise in here in.
18:50
Yeah I know we've got some other people on stage down the bottom who also do we probably heard some opinions from everyone to about the two-third mark we haven't really been going through in PTR or to surf anyone especially towards a lower end who's joined the room wants to ask any questions make any comment or just state whether they what their level of where they could put themselves in the queue for signing up for near a link, please feel free to to just have a chat that's what this room is about it's really evidence gathering.
19:23
Infer room that we're gonna be running next Monday. Thanks. I'm David and I'm gonna hand back to the people on the stage. Have a question. This is really the cybersecurity. I'm not aware of any devices that can't be hacked right now. If it was controlled by a phone or some other device or plugged into charge most of those devices that exist on the earth today can be hacked and is that a concern and I'll leave that back to somebody that might be able to answer that.
19:50
It probably should be the only descriptions. I've heard connecting your brain to what you know from from A to B B is is almost certainly going to be something like your iPhone and the medium would be something like a Bluetooth connection which if you know anything about cyber security, you know, that all you need to do to hack Bluetooth is proximity.
20:13
So, yes, Right, there's plenty of back doors to every single cell phone that's out there, so that would be a high concern, so I would say no right now.
20:28
I agree and just a quick comment. Having things stick out of your body is a huge problem for the immune system. So this only is really going to work if there is something wireless so that way something is inside the body community getting wirelessly to something outside the body.
20:47
If there's any tech that does that in a safe way then maybe that is feasible.
21:00
That the risk of cancer.
21:08
I'm not sure. If you're concerned about. If simply were health concerns what neuralink could do is sort of question mark already is is not a question mark. So if you just if you just look up something like foreign body response use heart rate, there's a lot out there with regards to the the problems they're having and and that's what that's one of the I think every set this but one of the things people are under appreciating about neural link is that they're working to overcome this.
21:48
Does anybody know if it's done anything to help cure paralysis of individuals yet and how far along they are with that? That's the stated aim, which is is initially that it is to deal with neurological and physical conditions especially things like paraplegia and quadriplegia, but also some other conditions and it is stated very clearly in neural exams that once they develop technologies to assist people who have various conditions that could be assisted that they would move into applications where it was for able-bodied enabled otherwise able people to be augmented.
22:31
They haven't drawn the line at only medical support but the the early ambition of neuralink is in terms of helping exactly the sort of people that you describe and I just want to say I'm if I may to so two really great points were just made one is that yeah you can look at other devices you could look up you could read about dps and look at the risks and the patients are dealing with in terms if you want to know how much DBS has caused cancer there's I'm sure there's been a ton of document.
23:06
Ation of that and other another can like that those are areas where you can research whereas those answers may not exist yet for for an early they would exist for other brain implants and. I forgot the second part, but I'll go ahead and pause. Is DBS graphing is that graphene fiber?
23:29
I know deeper and stimulation is is not graph graphing base yet it ought to be because I've heard that a graphene is is good for is going to prevent your immune system from attacking if you if you build a brain implant out of graphene, but I but it's not it's not being used at way yet as far as I know.
24:04
What about evolution how do you all see human beings and evolving as a result of this technology? Evolution is always too slow you might be thinking of something like a neuroplasticity someone said I think Scott said earlier something about neuroplasticity but. Specifically when Elon was asked about this on the lexicon podcast he spelled out that there that they're relying more on the machine side and much less on the neuroplastic side with respect to making these connections he doesn't think that we can rely much on on neuroplasticity.
24:50
I think the evolution question was supposed to be yeah yes yes, thank you um, so basically the readout is perfect so maybe we're not even using electrodes anymore maybe we're using hydrogels with cell type specificity, you know, like some some sort of moving electrode and and so now that's perfect if so now you have like complete input and output basically you could hook up to the AR and you know what I mean and have all this sensation or something like that, like, Okay maybe not that far but like how do we start to evolve once we have an extra layer that's directly wired yeah that's so speculative.
25:33
I would not want to comment I can comment on that so um, but the other thing that the David said was that so about it being the initial use cases because they've been sort of emulating with the monkey video they've been sort of like doing what brain gait did and which the initial uses would be to help people to overcome paralysis so that it that was a second thing that I was thinking about using this device to help people overcome paralysis seems like one of the first.
26:00
Things. They want to do so they can win with investors and create a product that's going to basically so even if the product like if you look at DBS and you look at you know, the Utah array and you look at all the health conditions that people who have accepted these devices are dealing with as a result of those implants, well the thing is like you it'll be like a trade-off so if a person is is paralyzed and they know that they can have so much more increased brain function than they may want to sign off on some acceptable amount of risk for cancer and other.
26:34
Surgical risks and as a basically as a trade-off whereas people who don't need this at all may want to wait until this is like really perfected to an excellent stand and as far as you know, human evolution what I wanted to say was that I'm I'm really starting to dive a lot deeper into like laser doppler and like I guess open one I guess when I didn't understand about open water, my early adjustments technology open water dot cc is that it's not just f nears it's like it's like it's also laser based system and so what I'm seeing is like people are talking about.
27:09
Using laser and doppler or laser f nares because you can you can do when you combine it with holography and you're in your basically doing like using really big camera sensors and you're capturing the brain you capturing images of the brain so fast that you're able to basically image the brain is fast as EEG like or faster like that, that's what that's kind of like what we're talking about if you're gonna do like holography then you do want to have like the best quality images labels really huge.
27:44
Camera sensors and you want to be doing it almost faster than EG and so that the and then you know, and then for stimulation they're combined that with ultrasound so I actually like no chance that within 20 years we're gonna anyone's gonna be getting brain surgery anymore because because we're gonna have a devices that are cheap and affordable and external and they'll be like laser-based flography with ultrasound and you'll just you have like this wearable that'll do everything the neuralink could do in terms of reading and ultimate ultra precise super, you know, Basically ultrasound based stimulation of very precise areas of your brain to to read and write to your brain like a like it's a hard drive but without any surgery in a very precise way that's that's me another 20 years that's it's not possible that will not be have will not have this by then.
28:38
So what's the cool stuff that we're gonna have because of that is as I guess what day this you know, the question. All right. I mean that just replaces an early completely because you it gives you all the functionality to the narrow link has and promises to have but in a bit basically in a completely wireless system that you can just you can just wear on your head.
29:03
Maybe you could delve a little bit deeper into the the right part. So certainly, you know, we've used a lot of neuroimaging techniques including EEG FMRI ECOG. Electrochronography and things like that successfully but when you say right so we haven't ever at least in the way that I understand, right?
29:24
We haven't done that successfully at all with any sort of technology. So it's maybe an open question of whether that is at all feasible. So, can you talk a little bit more about which you mean by right? Yeah, so every time you do every time you're gonna do a brain scan, you're gonna get like a perfect scan of a person's brain if you're exactly where everything is and you're gonna be able to dial down to stimulating individual neurons or or making more you know, you can do like you'll be able to do like basically.
30:00
It'll it'll be like, you know the point of of stimulating individual neurons would be to stimulate neural circuits I think and also to so you know, so you get neural circuits go on but then also you can manipulate the oscillatory cycles and in local and macro and waves in terms of like local micro circuits, but also you can you can manipulate the brains oscillatory activity on a larger scale.
30:31
By by targeting inhibitory circuits and sort of you know, the basically the inhibitory and excitatory system and you know, you can you'll be able to target the the brain stem the thalamus like look through there's a whole bunch of you know things that we still need to discover about what what areas is stimulate and why we want to certainly those areas but the but we'll be able to.
31:03
Make huge leaves forward in the next 20 years in terms of in terms of understanding where in and what we want to stimulate and we'll have the precision to stimulate basically anything. So that's those are my thoughts. In terms of the in terms of the long-term evolution question that I believe Olivia was asking.
31:26
Yeah, I guess I'm a little bit more skeptical. You know, it'll be interesting to see and certainly things like deep brains stimulation. I have shown promise for medical function, but it doesn't seem like there's necessarily an obvious way. To stimulate anything to like evoke thoughts or communicate or you know, create images or anything like that.
31:52
It doesn't seem like we have a good enough understanding of the brain yet to do anything like that. Oh and we don't even know if it's actually possible, right? So, I mean we, You know hypothesize that stimulant and first of all we're talking single neurons as well and 20 years seems like a stretch to be able to get to the single neuron level but you know, we I guess we have this hypothesis that if stimulating a neuron is all that's needed to like create some sort of subjective experience and we don't even know if that's true.
32:29
I mean, I don't know why he keeps saying we I'm sorry but the people are you know, if you look at the neural dust experiment or octogenetics or slots people who and lots of people who are using electrodes. To stimulate single neurons, there's a long history to that. I think it means we like neuroscience don't know if stimulating neurons will elicit the percept that's that what you were talking about here.
32:59
Yeah, so so um I'm saying is that there's a long history to stimulating a single neuron so I'm not sure what you're saying that you're that you're skeptical that we can't stimulate single neurons this has been happening for hundreds of years. I mean anything I think he's talking about creating consciousness and thoughts memories rather than you know, movement or or other I guess lower order mental activity from reading what you were saying mark.
33:35
Yeah, yeah that that's kind of what I'm getting at and so yeah in in vivo with a device in our head as well it's not clear that that's you know a short-term thing that we'll be able to do with something like neural link so what you're saying it sounds like you said that it's not gonna be possible to to stimulate single neurons to change thoughts that's it sounds like it's you've ruled out that it's gonna be possible to do that just like, you know this already.
34:11
Like a pretty strong claim to say we'll be doing it in 20 years when we don't even know if it's a feasible like like whether you know a proof of concept even I see well, I mean, you know, I I think there is evidence to it and in fact that's the the book that I'm writing right now is that there actually is evidences so maybe there maybe there are some things you haven't reviewed yet, that's what I would suggest back a little bit on both sides here, uh, so I'll push towards the middle, um, so, uh the most Uh, similar thing we have to being able to stimulate individual neurons in an intact brain of a mouth of a something that we have genetic control would be something that's been around for maybe recent and that's slim and so with two photon imaging.
35:09
And two photons stimulation you can direct light to individual neurons. Now that same problem that I mentioned earlier where you could actually stimulate axons too by stimulating that area was solved by engineering a optogenetic protein that only lives in the soma. So now you don't have so now in this very mutated mouth you have the ability to stimulate individual neurons in an intact awake mouse using a basically really cool holography.
35:44
And that's been around for like just a couple years and just a couple abs are doing it and. So so that yeah, so the ability to stimulate individual neurons any human where you don't have genetic control and you know, that's our people the reasonable people are very resistant to having genes put in them.
36:06
So so I don't think that's gonna be a probable solution but uh now as far as can you evoke a perception in a mouse? I think that's been shown a little bit more. Then Mark basically sounded I mean, A little bit so it's debatable but I think like the the lab show some like fear memory things and so basically if you stimulate the right neurons that the mouse supposedly feels like they're in a place that they actually are not in they feel like they're in the place when you recorded that activity a little bit more towards you should be able to evoke a perception and there was some research where if you stimulate layer four of certain miles, you you they do act or at least behave in a way as if you like.
37:02
Gave them the whisker stimulus that that you trained them on So there's some evidence so to me I would lean more that that's possible but I would lean more away from the that it's gonna that we're ever gonna get that type of single neuron resolution control in the next two.
37:19
Yeah, 20 years would be pretty ambitious for that. So, I have to really great examples that sort of contradict with Scott and Mark are saying and they both come from David Eagleman and one of those examples is taking basically David Human talked about the experiment where they took the rats eyeball out of the eye socket and they plugged it into the audio cortex and Wrapping into perceived C began to see through the audio cortex when eyeball was sent.
37:43
So you just basically plugged in the eye and that began to stimulate the audio cortex and the right began to see that is an example of like causing the rat to see in a part of the brain that was never meant to see before and then another example is there's the there's basically the example of what it was called when when you don't blank now.
38:07
The it's the example of when, You. You. Oh my god. I'm gonna remember in like one minute. Yeah, numb and I think I think what maybe we are sort of left. Along this idea that certainly with rats and sort of stimulus response type behavior, you know, we might be making decent progress but given how little we understand about the human brain in terms of the relationship between neural activity and like subjective experience and you know person even just basic perception.
38:46
You know, it it seems like maybe 20 years as a reasonable goal to start to have an idea of just you know, the neural representation of you know, A percepts in a more concrete way let alone being able to you know, stimulate them to evoke those those process and you know we've been working at it and and sorry by we I you know, I come from a kind of neuroscientist perspective and not not on the anatomy side or not even you know, not on the you know, single cell recordings and in animals and things like that, but from the cognitive neuroscience side it's you know, we're still kind of an in the dark ages in terms of understanding the relationship between neural activity and you know, and Thought and like what we're thinking and what we're seeing and things like that.
39:36
So it seems like we need to you know, solve that much more convincingly to be able to use neural link. Again, you know, it has a lot of promise for for you know, dealing with you know, you know injuries and and and, you know, you know going from the brain out but for going from out to the brain in I guess for the human brain, it seems like we it seems to me seems a very very very far away.
40:05
So the hypothesis of my book is that basically this is, Already been solved if you looked at the research as a whole and the second thing that was was about how David talks about how stimulating the tongue like if you attach a camera until to someone's head and knew you why are the the pixels to an electrode stimulus pack on their tongue or on their back they'll begin that person will begin to see through the camera if they're blind to begin to see like the crude image which is basically their brain converting the electrodes that are on their back or their tongue into an image but because as electrode stimulus represents the stimulus from the pixels on the camera, and there's also a case.
40:44
Of conjoined twins who would they they could see through each other's eyes and they did many experiments where where they they asked to grow what is your sister looking at because their brains were literally connected by the thalamus and the girls were able to report with the other twin was seeing even though they could not at the same time face the same direction.
41:02
So these are two these are two examples of basically well, the main example is that with by stimulating the tongue or the back you can cause a person to see and so that again points to if we're able to stimulate just as someone's skin or their tongue. Then we could cause perceptual changes and if you if you just if you get into their brain the you know more specifically then you're I mean, there's there's no reason why you could do it to their tongue or to their back and cause in the same images but you couldn't also just stimulate the norms directly and also cause them to see images there's just no so so my hypothesis is that is it all this research that you're saying doesn't exist yet does exist and that's really the purpose of my book to point all this out.
41:51
To make it published. The neuroscience side, which I think is fantastic and I want that to continue. But chief drawn now. I guess the information architect sort of side of the the room it sounds like we're the way we're playing around if we were to draw an. Altitude a is in.
42:17
Directly into the process or in. Analogy and that's sort of the question that was raised whether we'll actually be able to do that. Obviously you have to pursue something if you go to achieve it if you give up before you try you you won't get there but we talk about that sort of second order level and then there's a third order above that which is one that's the fills a lot of the rooms on Clubhouse which is are we going to get into consciousness and those even higher?
42:46
I'm ordered but I think you were you're making not an argument. There but not necessarily disagreeing. Really got into plugging anything directly into what's the human equivalent process.
43:09
Yeah, no, I just wanted from the perspective of an adjective framework may not necessarily be in terms of trying to simulate unusual neuron depending on whether you're talking about the parasympathetic nervous system versus an entry. That ability was demonstrated already by just inducing different kind of prebiotics into your intricular system can have an effective change.
43:37
Just curious in terms of. The analog pixels that are required are they always necessarily required you know, as a. You know induction into the brain versus any other part of the body that's one thought process that I would like to use to discuss the second aspect of it is the analogue this group of pixels that we're discussing right now is just in probably two hundred three hundred if you really have come up with an effective framework again also come up with compute capacity consciousness is really far away and even.
44:19
Train understand the methylation process, if you have actually done what memory is a bit far away, but if you're talking just about basic electrical impulses to control I do not know whether you really need individual neural level, you know, individual neuron level activities to be controlled probably if you just increase the number analog pixels and if you can.
44:48
Ensure that the data plus you know goes through the second computer for. Effective computation because the current capacity the inability to go beyond just controlling. Basic activities. Suspecting in terms of controlling. Based on the data bus at the computation capacity, which is nearger more real time. I think within two or three years.
45:24
Given the neuromarketing tips and also then I think the current ship is at one but give the new robot more free chips actually, you know doubling in its capacity, probably. More complex activities can be controlled externally and also internally the impulses can go beyond just paraplegic or you know.
45:50
What do you call as paralysis based feedback to something more trans humanistic and by that what I mean is primarily in space or vision or better speech or character impediments in terms of something that you inherit from spectrum so there's a lot of work that's already happening in terms of the externality of one standlock pixel actually increases how can reinforcement learning can come into play, how can we actually use you know effective you know, A perceptive controlled theory and gave the article models that can be applied which can circumvent the need for expensive computers.
46:36
But again the the just for the thought process I weren't asked the neuroscientist at neurobiologist in this room can can the electrodes be also implemented throughout the nervous system including enteric as well as passive pathetic or or is it limited from its perspective for its effectiveness sodium or or the current set of neural basic words just curious?
47:11
Sympathetic person pathetic. I think the way that sorry neurotransmitters are released are in a very volumetric way so they're released and then they sort of travel along distance and they have. Affects that lasts over long just you need this kind of precision that you do when you're trying to get at a cordable micro circuit where there's tons of cells getting those convergent and divergent inputs just a lot of processing is happening in a very small space and the cortex which is why you would want the high density probes.
47:51
I think in the, Is that you mentioned you don't need that sort of high density, so you you don't need this sort of new technology.
48:05
And your your your theories that anyway the the fact that there's an density at the cortex actually takes care of the need for any kind of using pulses as well as person is that how I need to understand because you were cutting off maybe to my network would that be a fair summary f yeah no sorry, my name is Scott.
48:35
Apologies yeah so no, I haven't even I haven't even mentioned that there I can forget so I in the cortex there's just a lot of computation that's going on and that computation is going on through this connectivity where lots of neurons are converging on to one neuron and then one neuron is converging back onto lots of neurons and other parts of the brain you see more.
49:01
What's you see more of like some neurons connecting to some neurons and it's just sort of propagating in fashion where there's it's not so convergent or divergent and in the sympathetic and personal pathetic nervous system. Of this sort of neurotransmitter release where it's sort of diffuses over a large space, so you kind of don't need the precise control to manipulate their activity to have to get the increase parasympathetic or deep there's sympathetic.
49:39
I I'm gonna make it. A template or sympathetic can be just sort of you can turn it up you can turn it down and you can do that with a very gross signal in terms of doing anything sort of functionally relevant in the cortex.
50:17
There's no path no problems that are disrupted the way just attacked and hence we are in phase one or whatever we call them right now the draft. I'll be working on an assumption that the cart extensity is reasonably good enough for making any significant impact. It is not a good summary.
50:41
Sorry you keep saying the cortex density. I that there's demon density of electrodes. I mean the density electrode so in terms of analog pixel comes up.
50:55
In terms of I'm sorry the analog pixel the density of the electrode actually due to mines the analog pixels that comes out for the computation that's the electric bus which actually goes into the N1 chip for doing a computation so I was more curious from that perspective. The readout.
51:13
So what's being read out from the neural activity is is coming from a yeah, it's you it's a you're reading out from a space that has lots of neurons and lots of connectivity there. And so that's a readout. Thought you were talking about and is at least in terms of sympathetic person pathetic you're talking about stimulation and and you're comparing it to cortex readout.
51:46
So there are two ways, right. One is stimulation that goes into your into your system, whatever is that system becomes the the brain or other nervous system or the cortex or better the electrodes currently are actually inhibited both from my eyes or gyms or humans and the second one is reading out as against trying to make a stimulation into the system so the readout from the system.
52:17
Is just an easier is an output from the system and reading into afford the student simulation is the input in the into the system. That's how I'm looking at it. I see we're just looking at it from here either way either way.
52:38
Yes so when I say reading I just mean recording and then when I say writing I mean stimulating and in terms of course, but yeah, so I think in terms of the if you're talking about the biggest nervous, I mean, I could be wrong this isn't my field to study but I am fairly confident that there's not much to read out in those area in those areas or I don't think putting a high density probe is really gonna get you a lot of additional information that you can make useful.
53:09
I could be wrong with somebody else. I'm but in the cortex for sure. The more density or that you can get in that you're probably gonna get a more useful signal out of that and then be able to convert that into some sort of finer scale motion or whatever you want to do with the signal.
53:29
Yeah, so that's all I just wanted to do marketing when you said sympathetic person sympathetic versus other areas. I just wanted to say like you don't need new technology you can use a little technology I guess to read out activity from sympathetic personal pathetic nervous system. And I think this is more the the purpose of this is more to get like some sort of fine scale cortical neural activity and and get some sort of you know, Really fine detailed control.
54:03
So you can control like in cursor arm or something and find detail because of that. Yeah. No it also I mean, there's also a secondary technique. There's also a secondary implementation when you're actually looking at incisions and you you have to consider the the surface materials of the electrode that will actually be left into a barrier like the brain versus if the same amount of.
54:35
Impulses can be actually moving used and actually read out from a different part of your of your system and not necessarily an incisive.
01:08:47
You.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio