b0316y ctpr
Audio Note: Transcription needs to be fixed.
Microtubules Consciousness Recursion

00:00
About having some discussion about them early on is kind of important when you start to think about how these entities interact with each other so that's what that's when it gets a little bit interesting so this is something that I've been thinking about and wanted to bring up is that you know, people people keep coming into the groups and they start sharing the depends viewpoint and I have debated that so many times and and sometimes I just don't have the energy for it but it's like but I but I guess it's still needs to be discussed and it's like it's kind of like I think that the basic like the most in the the biggest reason.

00:35
It can't move forward is that it's sort of violates like information theory you can't have like in order to have consciousness that means that you're observing there's an observer who's observing right and you're observing something and that means that and like if you're observing music then then what's necessary to observe music like you someone can hand you a record you're not gonna hear sound someone can hand you a city wrong just like without the player and you're not gonna hear sound right you have to have a decoder in order to turn the the bumps on the record or the dots on the CD rom in.

01:10
To into sound and and it's the same thing with your brain there's like there's no observation if there's if unless there's a decoder there's information has no meaning unless it's the unless it's decoded so it has to be encoded and decoded and that means that like if there's no observation happening because there's no because no decoder then there can't be any consciousness and like so like there can't be any consciousness in Iraq because there's no observation happening and if if there's an observation happening because there's no decoder in the rock we can see that there's no decoder in the rock the whereas like in the human brain.

01:45
People are our work there's no there's no in my mind that the the the there's no I guess the way I phrase it was there's the idea that the the the human brain is computationally interpreting the incoming signals from the environment in order to process them and and decode them and and and perceive them it's not a controversial idea, it's there's this is like this is what most neuroscientists and I think most people most educated.

02:20
People believe and yeah, so it's so yeah stuff there. Yeah great. I like the way you're talking and I would love to actually make a bridge between what you're saying right now and what Ben was saying earlier about the the the relation to predicting the cosmos not right word, but you know what it was referring to earlier with.

02:49
Em the so first of all I am actually talking with with philosophers contemporarily philosophers about we introducing parts of about psychism but not all and the the essence there is that we we learn to. Understanding a different way first of all the sort of first let me refer back to a good reason why we actually would think that consciousness is prior to to matter and and I think that the the way we are looking at it at the moment is explaining some things like the fine tune problems and some of and giving an alternative to the whole idea of the multiverse the because that there being you the thing I'm doing as an applied science.

03:42
I want to have it grounded in the world and really fully emerged into the world. And like I said, I've always rejected any of this spiritual stuff and bond psychic stuff until my the world itself showed me that the research I was doing on the was exactly that. Me that there's another way let me do that metaphor.

04:10
You can think about it in a different way and think about fake vacuum right and now on on this planet we actually only have artificial vacuum but we have it everywhere we use it for our combustion engines to to make a lot of work for us so so we're using it everywhere but it's fabricated in an artificial woman's and so in an atmosphere in a,

04:42
Side of your magnitude, your mic is breaking up a lot oh, so let me maybe it's the connection is this better. I hope this will be better that is statistically significant sound for me, so he carries okay, so what I'm trying to say is that think about your brain as as a container to to keep an electrical storm together.

05:11
If I would take atmosphere into space without a container it would disperse it wouldn't exist at all so in my view the the stones and the plant many of those material stuff around us and is in that kind of sense not linked to consciousness and consciousness is to me like this were pull of electrical lightning let's say but that can actually exist outside the brain as well and if I link it to much larger scale.

05:46
I like creating the conditions to get to the fine tuning structure where life can emerge and that's a very different balance scheme so so it is about this but it's not bounties and something that Ben said about what if all the different consciousnesses are emerging at the same time that's exactly the thing that we are at the moment working on with the concept of what is called a tribal poison so you have autopoies which is basically.

06:21
This. Some creating itself, but then you have like a little bit of a problem like where the hell is this coming from? And while with tribal police is it is actually more in line with the also the the the fact that we are multicellular creature so like a multilateral cellular creature has at one level cells that can autonomous reproduce and do whatever they want but on a very own aggregated level there is an influence because if I stop eating I will eat my, Muscles to keep my brains alive, so there is a higher order at play and and the same way we are looking now at this concept of tribal poises and what I'm trying to do like in the research on the origin of life is look how convection cells and they they always emerge out of the fields that gets far from equilibrium, but then they emerge together it's not one confection cells, it's a collective of convection cells and you can only understand that because there's like this feedback structure that will improve the flow.

07:31
And many of the the things I'm learning and understanding about consciousness is exactly this I mean, you can wake up in the morning and you can you can be in a state like where the hell am I so you're not really consciousness conscious of the things that that the while your brain is perfectly functional, but then the flow gets little bit going and then you oh yeah, alright and then you back into it and there's similar kind of egg well exercise you can do like if you if you dream you can wake up and be in a mindset of a lot of work and forget your dream right away, but sometimes.

08:06
You can actually try to get back to the dream by going and standing in the feeling you had well in your dreaming and then where you stand in the feeling of that dream suddenly all the memory comes back in so in that way that there's this whole link and there's a strong link with things that we see in Zen Buddhism and so on where you go via meditation into a different kind of awareness, so there are many of what that there's still a lot of mystery around all of that right, but we try by not being too concrete like many of the examples you gave me.

08:41
Kind is for me to concrete let if you try to be a little bit more abstract then things may actually get explained by first seeing how like a cybernetic world can actually start changing the physical world and how that's kind of the bootstrapping relation and mix learned old speaking and by the way, I probably need to go for meeting in a few minutes.

09:11
Okay. I'm I can I can respond to that so so it sounds like you're you're I think I guess it's trying to paraphrase what you're saying something about consciousness being just the electrical activity or just the electromagnetic activity and and the brain just being a container for that activity to keep it together.

09:33
But but but maybe but maybe you think that if that electrical if that electrical activity could occur in a different kind of container like a maybe inside the the storm of Jupiter then there could be consciousness that right something like it doesn't have to be in the brain it could reformulate somewhere else it's not necessarily.

09:53
Connected to the brain the brain is serving it our culture what it's already happening in our culture, you cannot disconnect your own consciousness from the language speak and the culture you live in so you don't even need to go to so far away, okay and so I'm still on the topic of neuroscience though.

10:13
I mean, I guess I guess what I want to share is what I think is the missing missing piece here in in that. I like the painting but I think there's one missing piece and I want to share it it's that, um, you know from from from neuroscience. Um I think that um there's a well okay so there's a little there's like a ton of examples that and I have to kind of have to kind of piece it together.

10:37
I know you may not have enough time but so what so one example is that you know, they they do like the this the split rate this split break brain patients if that the famous guy should scientists. I think somebody with that idea was that every time you cut it if you do like a major incision that that, you know cuts across the corpus callosum or just divides the brain in half or a major surgery or if that there's a major injury and You know like a brain surgery like the the the they we see personality changes but people's personality changes and so that that that's like the that's the first sign that the the brain tissue is directly causing the electrical pattern if if the soil if the soul was the electrical pattern and it was in the brain tissue was just container then then how is changing the brain tissue changing that like changing that versus personality because that's when it's one big thing that people have to juggle with.

11:37
So I. Think it's because it makes it a little. Bit I look at the mind pray that so consciousness as it's like working right so it's feedback mechanism keeping itself in a kind of artificial constraints. The the brain if you get to work and that's exactly what we see if we you can do experiments with them and and have the the left brain and the right brain of the different questions and actually capture how they have the different answers to that like you you let them write and you let them say something and you ask them a question and you see that what's been written and what's been said is different so this kind of stuff really fits perfectly with what we call that tribal buoysis, so it's the whole idea that everything you see around you and can actually be understand.

12:32
From a process perspective everything is feedback, structures, creating and creative. Okay well so there's another there's there's some other problems with that and and so like but what's what's really interesting? I think it is a missing piece is how much the brain tissue is involved in generating that electrical storm and in and and like, you know, every time every time a neuron fires or a neural circuit fires you a micro a micro column of activity spikes a column or a region spikes, you have one region in another like there's there you have dipoles fire.

13:17
Ring off yeah you clearly do you? Know workspace high polthers, yeah I do but I I but I have issues with that too. I have have my own hypothesis.

13:34
So that's the. Thing I I noticed that the the system of creation so the feedback system I was working with in art was popping up again, so I was wondering like how come that this neuroscience is actually explaining something that I'm from artificial intelligence totally disconnected from that research also had as a system so that's one of the first time so the end can go little bit deeper how like having this for different kind of leverage as can actually create a feedback on creation.

14:09
And if you understand how you can create that feedback on creation, you can actually see how even cultures are consciousness and aware as a feedback structure like that, but just although way slower rates so the like speeding up plans and see then how plans behave like animals, it's a little bit the same so there is like, As well but it's moving so slow it's called side skies, so but the the thing that that you can see is if you.

14:42
The most creation.

14:46
You will get more aware and you can so it's already hardcoded our brains, but our actions can actually also improve that kind of flow. I mix lapels speaking. I hope it helps. So okay look so I still I still think that idea that you're saying violates him from information theory which was the final part of what I was going to say because you know, you're you're not only our neurons generating this electrical storm, but they're but the neurons themselves are the ones that are decoding and the the information in the brain that includes includes any result of this electrical storm that there that is is is the electrical storm might be altering the positions of electrons which change the firing rate and change the brain activity patterns.

15:35
And but the but the only way for the for information to be tacted or for for an observation to happen is because the neurons are making that observation the the brain activity itself doesn't have decoders and therefore it has no sense of information. And stock conscious it's not not unobserver.

15:58
But it's because you believe that information. No no no that's because I believe that that information has to be has to have the the in a that an observer has to have a decoder for in those observation to happen, otherwise information has a meaning. But the thing is that that embodiment can be extremely simplified to four forces interacting on each other.

16:33
I don't know if we're gonna solve this debate tonight if you have to leave in a minute because this requires some maybe another hour of arguments, but maybe you come back another time and and we'll we'll talk tomorrow that's by the way and I really like the way you're thinking and the fact that you're critical because if the way because if you that's kind of critical response allows to create a language to express the things that we can see from like morse mathematical perspective, but like yeah, if you want to have like some I Dea of what that four forces creating the system of creation, it looks like the the the most easiest case I can see the round me is sailing against the wind in the case of sailing against winds you're also using four forces to actually create a very strange well or paradoxical movement, but there's like a cost and the cost relates to a dispersion you do in the the the medium the fluids where you can do the same again.

17:43
The thing with the ceiling against the winds and the four forces is that there is no constructive knowledge to build on top of so if you then start doing that with things like machine learning you can actually see how you can create an evolution of creativity. But yeah, you're right.

18:01
I'll actually my date is not yet here, so I keep going until I am.

18:09
So I so I so I don't I haven't heard of this thing called the four forces system of creation. I looked it up and are you talking about the four basic forces of physics like gravitational force electromagnetic force nuclear force and strong nuclear force? My.

18:35
So because the whole idea is that the four forces always work on workspace, but workspace is important in the space, well there's a there's there's a system that tries to create the user workspace but there's also an environment that has influence on that workspace the the it incase of sailing against the winds the four forces are like this you have first.

18:59
It's called lift and drag. So those are the the forces on the sale and what happens if you combine those two. Well, if you play with those two forces, you can actually create a force that has like a 90 degree angle against the winds, but you are not yet against the wind.

19:16
So it seems. The seal against winds So what actually happens is that you are in a medium your your boat is in the water and there is like this skill in the boat that makes the boat go only in one direction basically. So it's easy to go back and forth, but it's hard to go sideways.

19:34
That's what you have for the boat. That's why we turn a boat if you want to go in a different direction. So when you do is you put your position the boat is such a way that the lift force like this 90 degree angle against the wind has maximum effects on the viscosity of the water and the viscosity of the water will actually be a Reaction force.

19:55
And so that's the cost you pay to actually move across the 90 degree angle. And then you cannot sales straight against the wind when you need to do is like zigzag all the time. So and if you translate all that kind of forces to how we learn you actually get to understanding how there's a feedback structure on learning that allows us to create novelty.

20:21
So creating something fundamentally that doesn't exist yet in your existing knowledge, but I'll send you the link. To the PhD so you you can actually see the forces see how it works and and how I make the link with this ancognition. Okay, okay, but I'm I just want to say that I I'm not hearing like a counter argument to what I'm saying that and I've had for further thought so so the argument was that, you know electromagnetism the electromagnetism in the brain the electrical storm has no way to decode information that the neurons are passing to it it it would and I think it would probably if like if you're combining, you know information together that it might.

21:09
Yeah, it just like I don't understand so yeah. So if you look up information theory and decoding like that is just that's essential for an observation to happen is is that the information that's received has to be decoded for in order to be transmitted has to be encoded and if you don't have a physical mechanism to to it.

21:30
I follow you the but they do make one big mistake and that mistake relates to the concept we know in cybernetics as bootstrapping. And the best example I can give is is called the bootstrapping compiler where you actually create a long existing compiler and in a so in a language that doesn't is code decoded yet, but you'd make a trick what you will do is instead of creating a compiler you create an interpreter in that language, so that's a virtual space but in that virtual space you actually give the the program itself as input and what it will do by the recursive structure it would.

22:16
Like. Actually create.

22:21
A you never wrote one code line of code it because it's bootstrapping itself through itself, so it's it's like the snake eating itself if you start playing with that idea that if you can create a virtual space that can decode that then can actually create the code to to run itself you actually solve the problem and that that's like well that's why I'm referring to the Whirlpool as mean first the fluid is just going in any direction but as soon as you create that that feedback structure, so you can be start playing with that and if you go to Information go to programming that playing with recursion is something we do all the time but it's pretty ill understood outside of the domain of programming modeling so the thing that you need to do then is use a lot of the programming modeling techniques to understand how we can understand cognition, so yeah.

23:18
I know it's it it requires quite interdisciplinary approach and that's that's the biggest challenge I guess. Okay, so you're you're saying that the the the, Ology of of the ionic activity in the brain is like a whirlpool that is. Is a. It's it's you're suggesting that somehow it's gathering information and transmitting information and understanding information.

23:51
There's an advanced case in so if you look up confection cells, you'll see that confectional cells so that there is actually a noble prize in chemistry in 1977 given to it because it's it was breakthrough science but it's the the thing that you see the confection cells show you how a system far from equilibrium can actually start self-organizing so that's that's one aspect but the confections it solves itself doesn't yet tell you how it's coding there has been an advanced.

24:26
Experiment where they start heating the sides of those confection cells and what happened is depending on a certain temperature you actually get a different pattern and you see clearly purely from topology how information is coded in flow and that can easily happen in your brain as well the the the how then that kind of patterns start changing the world is yet another bootstrap, but if you if you start understanding how that processing of, Bootstrapping is working so a creates a B but these not good it's it's artificial and temporal but the temporal and artificial thing like a scaffold is used to create something structural and then when the structural thing exists the scaffold can go away again, and that's exactly the idea of a scaffold, right?

25:21
Sorry go ahead. I'm sorry. I'll pause and take a break you go ahead and respond first. I just wanted to bring you a couple of things back down to it so as much as I like thinking about the fate of the universe and stuff I also like to make sure I can keep this shit real so when you took my convection cells of course in everybody house right now you probably got some double glazing so there's a perfect example right at that the type of convection so you're talking about little literally an example would be double glazing and why you need the correct gap between the pains of glass if it's too small then you're just not quite enough just not got enough depth of air to the to be a depth of an insulator and then when the gap between the glass gets too big you start to get these convection cells set up they emerge in the in the space.

26:04
And then they create a transport mechanism from heat from the cold outer pain of the way from the hot inner pain to the outer pain true conduction and confection is that I mean that's a perfect example of something's actually in people's hope right that's a nice well. I didn't know that one but yes that those are also confectional cells but you are talking now about confectional cells of air right yes, so if you go to the original experiment because you try to make it as visible at possible they use oil and so heat heating up the oil actually leads to this honey.

26:39
Cube grid of of cells transporting heat from the bottom to the top, so the the the glass is is a very good example, thanks for that. Ben. You can see it in edges for the puffer smoked to so that's that and then there was another thing that Michael just said that really made me think of another example where we can really simply bring it back down to earth might just remind you what you said at the end of what you said it'll spark the, Recall of that once a lasting month is it um, I was thinking I was thinking about how so I think my how you know, the brain is as a whirlpool of activity that was well I asked if it was gathering and then transmitting patterns but but also maintaining so it maintaining its own equilibrium so so so I guess I guess the point was that a convection pattern is I guess it's gathering a pattern and transmitting a pattern.

27:40
Example back to the back to your brain back to your the observer who sees it but um. So it's I guess you can make an argument that it's it's there's a way to transmit patterns that but but I'm still but but you know front and I'm sort of like from.

28:00
That's the yeah, it's that's interesting, um.

28:07
And I guess I didn't figure been so. To remember.

28:16
Yeah trying to balance come contributed a conversation with having a shave with. Thing I need to shop before my 9:30 meeting. So I'm just trying to listen in but now I can't remember what the other concrete example was but there was there was a really good just grounding example of something that might be when you were mixing well in USA.

28:36
No. So, that's okay. That's cool. Was it about the the whirlpool of of electromagnetical flux creating coding on itself? No it wasn't I mean it was one of the comment about recursion is of course in programming anything you can express recursively expressed intuitively so if you can't get your head around a recursive way of describing things.

29:03
I you know, like the talus of annoyance a great example, when I learned to solve that both as a program, but also as a person, you know you I was in family's the toy shop with those those three annoying posts with a with these decreasingly small discs on them in you know, your challenges that you've got like five discs on a post with holes in them, like going up, you know, five increasingly small donuts making a little town and you have to move those all to another.

29:26
The rule is you never allowed to put a bigger one on top of the smaller one however you do it that's a recursive perfect recursive problem a very simple way doing it as you move you imagine them in a circle rather than a line you say remove the smallest disk one space left and then do the only other allowed move and then keep repeating that that's an iterative way of describing having to do the toes of the noise a recursive way that would be to say well move one disc to another post and then then everything else becomes a sub problem.

29:54
So recursions about like the problem being that when a problem has itself described as a sub problem of factual kind of nature, you can be recursive but you can also. Translate that to your true is just in some problems spaces and iterative solution to the towers of the noise a good program.

30:09
If you want to try and write some code to tell you how to solve the cells of anointing you're not allowed to use recursion you I suspect your program is going to be a lot longer I'd be very interested to know actually if anybody has the knowledge whether it's fundamentally needs to be longer than a recursive algorithm that's interesting because that talks to compression and simplification and representation but but it's certainly what appears to be understand just another random thought.

30:32
I had the recursion is not sacred if you like it's just a way of representing a problem and I don't know if you can press this down to the same sort of size program as of intuitive version fundamentally. It probably does because I think they compiled down to similar code with a good compiler.

30:49
So think about the main question but this stuff about you know compression and compilers and that way of looking at how how information works is quite interesting because it grounds the conversation nicely when you stop talking about compilers and bootstrapping compilers and the like so yeah. I like that direction.

31:03
I'm Ben I'm done. If I'm just gonna listen to the next five minutes because I've got a shower. Okay, thanks Ben then I like the way you think so. I'm happy we met here. That. I actually wonder if I mean now you you know to be rude point where I'd be rude if I didn't unmute and say you feeling the mutual, of course, it's always great to meet people on here, but if I don't reply now it's because I literally am in the show.

31:29
Yeah sure go ahead say, you know, I would goes on club high should never need to apologize for not responding, right? And saying that I mean now you actually got this meme in my head like trying to figure out if the length actually says something about the the compression when it's a recursion so actually had this I'm just gonna share it mean it's it's happy hour right?

31:54
I was combining the the the research on artificial intelligence so that's one lap with the research on programming modeling lab and I got kind of in trouble with that because the the two labs don't speak at all and at a certain moment. Like when you're talking about this expertivity I was thinking like, you know in an artificial intelligence there's a lot of in interest in cultural language and how that affects the thing you you can express so I was wondering is that is it vice versa as well can actually start talking about a programming languages and the the poetic ability of a programming language and what I did is I start looking at different programming languages and finding this very strange expression, you only have in one language and that I give a presentation.

32:46
About like the poetic nature of a programming language and as of that day, I'm not allowed in the lab anymore.

32:58
You know, there was this great there was a great this guy, he wrote this a programming language that basically like, Like it's all like it's all like rock music, um, let me see if I can find it real quick. But it's like it's like ever like every every line that you write in in the library is basically like us like a like a rock song.

33:21
I look it up.

33:29
There way more people in the room so if anyone likes to come up on stage let me reset the the topic and it's it's happy hour so basically you can talk about anything you want and it's we are talking related to neuroscience, but editing goes so come on stage and let's start.

33:55
I found it it's a few if you'd like if you look on it's just called the rock star language and you can find it on you can just google rock star programming language. I'm sure it'll come up or it could you send me the the link via Twitter. I just send you my PhD as well, so you should have gotten the link yeah, I'll do that hi Joshua hi this has been a fascinating wormhole of whirlpools to listen to for the last 20 minutes before.

34:27
I thought I was going to go to bed. I'm sure my, Nerves in my brain will have a lot more material for my dreams tonight.

34:40
Yeah, I just want to say that I'm really amazed actually after talking to Mixel I was like, my brain is is firing because here's the thing, it's like, you know, one of one of the one of the things is like, you know, there there is just you know, the human being is a dissipative system like we are vortexed the there are oscillations in the brain there's there are cycles and feedback loops and self-maintaining physics and the physics of every cell and the button the body itself and, In a fractal way is trying to maintain equilibrium like these are all concepts that are sort of like tied into the what what the concept of a whirlpool meaning to you know, maintain it's it's on order with the I guess the the topology of recursion what was the was what makes those said that I kind of wanted to hear more about that because when mixols did recursion I thought of ways as you talking about like a recursive neural network, what is what is this was?

35:50
The dissipative systems really spot-on so so it is really like a recursion of recursions of dissipative systems so and it that actually goes back to topic that discussions we had in 2004 on machine consciousness so we had several people in the field of cognition coming together and starting to talk about machine consciousness and and one of the things that came out of it is like maybe we really need to look at the the mind as a virtual machine like we know from the Java and now all lies.

36:25
And it's a good metaphor but I mean, we try to get grounded how do you do it as an applied scientist and so when really realizing that we are actually also in that kind of recursion with with our culture I start digging into digital cultures and at a certain moment that's 2010 I start interviewing every founder of a startup bag assistant that was really successful between 2005 and 2010 and I was asking all of them like why are you doing open innovation so my assumption was?

37:00
That they were would have taken the the culture of open source development and just the projected it's on the the business development but when I told them what open innovation is about they all thought like okay, there's a bad idea we're not gonna do that so then I confronted them with the fact that it was happening in the ecosystem so how can it happen in the ecosystem if that's not the thing you want to have and what we figured out is that there was actually a dissipative system at the cultural level and so first the dissipation what what is getting this?

37:35
Dispersed it's the ability to do to do work so in open source you have the the policy of community contribution 10% 20%, sometimes even 100% you can contribute to your own project in the community and that kind of disperses all the codes in in relation to anything that can grows basically but there was a second policy and it's the second policy that really created the feedback leading to to the Whirlpool basically to the so it.

38:08
Wasn't opening the patient it was self-organizing innovation the second policy was that all entrepreneurs were very aware that they were living in a fragile ecosystem and that their action as a bullet well as a body as a organization had effect on the ecosystem and they needed to take care of that ecosystem.

38:30
So all the time they were questioning if I do this from a business perspective is it bad good or neutral to the to the ecosystem and if it was bad it basically was a no-go. And at the prioritization was always when it was good for the ecosystem neutral you could do it but good you got priority.

38:51
And by that very simple structure, there was this kind of self-organizing innovation in happening during those moments and after 2010 that there were a lot of corporates getting into the ecosystem and I kind of got shut out of all the back office discussions, so I kind of stopped doing participation research in that community.

39:16
But just to let you know, how that, That cultural as the also has this effect on the the awareness and the ability and embodiment that the the agents below could do that helps but it's basically it's all about the the disciplative systems.

39:43
Okay, why you're talking I was just um, so I mean, I have I have a like I said, I have my own like so that's global workspace theory and there's different theories of consciousness and oh dashes on the stage welcome if you want to say something go ahead. Oh, I mean, I was just fascinated by the conversation.

40:03
I also am very sad Mixel I don't know if I'm pronouncing your name correctly that you were ejected from a group after you brought poetry and art into the equation about AI and AI learning. My mother works that works at the National Science Foundation as a program director in exactly the areas of you know, language and technology and she's very fascinated by the fact that you know it.

40:31
Cultural language. Issues are really what is stagnating? AI a lot of you know, in jokes just cultural in jokes and humor is just so difficult for for truly AI to encompass and and possess. So, it's a I'm I'm kind of sad to hear that you were. When you when you were bringing these topics into the conversation that that you that you met were met with resistance.

41:07
I'll let me quickly respond. Don't be sad. I mean, it's all rock and roll basically. I'm scaring people all the time by the fact of creating. I mean, I'm all the time in the thing. I really love is is being part of the system of creation and like the most recent thing I start scaring is basically everyone around me when I when I start moving up as a digital child model.

41:31
So, I mean, I don't I don't mind that so much that you you keep on moving and it. The. That's the the essence, right? So if people don't want to continue that that's okay, it's everyone is it's their own issues they need to work on there. You can just keep on going.

41:47
So but thanks Dash, I'm personally sad for for just the the moving forward of that concept because that is really at the core of what needs to be focused on how we're going to get there. How are we going to have an AI that understands and can create real poetry just beyond abstractions and, Art and and humor and and language with.

42:14
A playful learning and understanding and yeah, it's um, I think yeah keep carving away and you know if you ever looking for NSF grants, you know, there's a there are people in that area that that definitely do care about those things. So interesting. So very quick response again that the the I actually working on a concept called interdiversity and it's the whole idea of if you have if you look at the before the internet you had information locked up.

42:49
In books and it was hard to be creative with that information today, we can create apps and be really creative. And so the information can get alive and the same actually exists with research research is at academia is quite conservative locked in schools of thought and locked in labs, but now it's going digital you actually start doing creative research and I will send you an article.

43:16
I have about the interdiversity and how I'm trying to work on that concept. So, thank you Dasha, but I see there are more people. On stage so take take the floor, go ahead. Hi. I did. I see Mark racing his hand. I am. I had something to say as well.

43:40
There's a thread that I was falling in quantum biology that had something to do with neuroscience and I was I wanted to see if anybody had more information around this idea of quantum economy and how that process is. Information or what it had might have to do with processing information in the brain and what it might have to do with consciousness.

44:11
Not sure if anybody else is following that thread. It was a a talk at the Royal Institute that got me onto this idea of arthritis neuroscience.

44:33
So are you talking about Oracle? Uh, yeah, yeah or a core and his name but yes. Um, Well, I yeah, you know, I wish they would which they would say more it's not it's not it's not clear to me and I think I'm not cleared a lot a lot a lot of other people how exactly the theory is supposed to.

45:05
I mean, there's like there's too many there's too many missing pieces in terms of how it's supposed to so my I have many thoughts about this so so I in terms of what the the issues are that I think they need to solve and maybe so so with with work or like briefly like there's a lot of research that said that points to people having memory issues if they're microtubules are collapsed right and so there's a there's a correlation between microtubules and memory.

45:40
And microtubules are basically kind of a mystery in terms of like what do they have to do with memory they just they they seem to be just the structure that holds up the the that helps create the cell and so the this um, the the the what I think happened and I don't know exactly as I think the neuroscientist who came up with the work orth theory, he really needed a way to explain what what microtubules did that somehow related to memory that that you know, result the like when they were destroyed then.

46:15
Memory became an issue and so he he came up with the idea that that their structure was good for and a storing and interacting with quantum effects at the at the the temperature of the brain whereas maybe other parts of the brain would would not have a structure that would be but it would enable information to it to exist or or be traffic back and forth at the at a quantum sort of level so so he created this Oracle theory and it's like yeah, so, The the information could be stored in in the microtubules like a quantum vibration or something.

46:59
I I'm not 100% clear and then somehow I could travel out of the microtubule again and and maybe even it could be like a random fluctuation could travel out of the microtubule and it could affect the firing of of a neuron so so this is like it's just like a really sort of like obscure.

47:19
Idea but I think what sort of problematic is that there's there's actually an alternative explanation for why microtubule microtubule collapse could be um, causing memory issues in that and that would be like the it is it is like so like like for the way um memory is thought to work it is the memory involves basically, they're short-term memory long-term memory and there's and the long-term memory.

47:50
You're gonna you can look up like long-term potentiation you can look up long-term depression and and these are like the major mechanisms of long-term memory and then short-term memory is I guess it's thought to be about neurosurgeons triggering sequences of firing and in over over you know, maybe 10 seconds and but the but the long-term memory it's like what has to happen apparently based on there's this research of Alzheimer's patients where you know with it's been.

48:25
It's been like for so for a long-term memory potential for long-term potentiation a long-term memory, you need to have to store memory you need to a new protein has to be synthesized it's just part of the process and in order for a new protein to be synthesized there needs to be a space for that protein synthesis to happen and if the cell has collapsed because the microtubules have collapsed then there's no space for that new protein synthesis to happen and that's a new memory could inform and that's there is a correlation between the class with the microtubule.

48:57
But because it's like the support structure for the new protein synthesis to happen that's that's that's this is what I this so this time things like there's an alternate reason for why microtubule collapse could be involved because it could be correlated with memory that may have nothing to do with the microtubule itself being a storage place for memory, so there's so that's the that's the first issues that there may be just no reason for microtubules to do that and the second reason is that there's no clear like okay, so I guess the fluctuation that comes out of a microtubule could somehow affect the Maybe the ionic charge of so so so neurons so neurons when they when they fire when they create their firing pattern it has to do with like a separation of positive and negative charges maybe a tiny fluctuation that comes a quantum fluctuation could could change the position of an ion or something and that might affect the the the firing rate of an oven neuron but it's just it's such a subtle it would be such I think it would be such a subtle effect that and and you know, so maybe it maybe it does or maybe it doesn't.

50:07
But maybe the brain has sort of like random stuff happening at that scale or even larger all the time anyways and it just has the brain is very good at sort of like getting rid of noise so if there is like sort of like signals coming out of the microtubule, it might not be sufficient to because the brain has like is trying to filter out noise so it can just focus on what isn't noise which is information that you don't have to brain has to separate noise from information, so I don't know that it would wreck that the brain is set up to recognize this the quantum signaling this.

50:42
Supposed to come from microtubules. I mean, I would like to find out and but I think we need more research and I don't know if if anyone's doing this research. It but I think that's where we're kind of I think so what I just I think we're kind of stuck right now with Oracle and right and right now the neuros has community because we're so stuck and the neuroscience community is not to to my knowledge not kind of not really focused on it and kind of like not trying to talk about it in the and so it's not it's not popular topic because the interest will work it's we're we're kind of I think that it's it's really it's a really hard sort of thing to solve and there are other things that are easier to solve right now and Another point is that like whether there is a role for quantum effects in memory or not, it doesn't really matter because what I'm saying is like memory is sort of the I think that there's a really good, you know, I guess they call it heavy and learning or the idea that you're that you're neurons are detecting coincidence patterns and in the coincidence patterns or like are like the basis of of or the detection of coincidence like the basis of detecting information.

52:00
And and so the idea is that whether there's quantum effects happening or not with the microtubules that doesn't change the basic realities of how memory works it wouldn't say we wouldn't say that long-term potentiation is invalidated or long-term depression is to validate it invalidated or that the existing knowledge of short-term or long-term memory changes, we would just say okay, well there's additional information that's coming from and going to microtubules in addition to what's already true, so it doesn't it's not a revolution.

52:35
Per se but it might so so maybe down the road 50 years from now or I don't know how long there people will say, oh well there's just additional thing where quantum effects are are in our you know have a sort of two-way traffic that are that are entered that that are involved with the interactions that in human memory but it wouldn't it wouldn't change the it's it's sort of like it's it's not wouldn't change the paradigm it just would would add a little more complexity to how everything works that's my thoughts.

53:10
I just got inside when you're told that like oh my crap maybe the the whole microtubules are yet another dissipated system that exists below the embodiment of the the currents understanding of DNA and stuff it's all right in my mind, so thanks a lot. I mean, I think honestly that the entire universe is fractal dissipative systems, so I just that's my feeling but,

53:42
I mean so like I caused a cosmos is a dissipative system it is a cyclone it has a it has a rotation it has to maintain it's equilibrium it exports increasing extra p to the surrounding environment has all the that's that's that's is it that is I did I say cosmos I meant galaxy a galaxy you can see if you look at a picture of a galaxy it's a cyclone just like a hurricane if you look at the the diagram of of an atom it's a cyclone these are like so we have cyclones in the atoms and we have cyclones in our galaxies and everything in between is.

54:17
This. Clone as well a human being is as dissipative system is a is a human being as a life form that is a cyclone in an on paper if you look at the physics that the human being has to maintain equilibrium or maintain life as to export increasing entropy to the surrounding environment to survive to maintain that equilibrium a cell does the same thing that's another cyclone does a human cell so like the entire universe is is is a fractal of cyclones, that's so funny.

54:47
I mean, one of the things that inspired me a lot so when I was earlier talking about, The confection cells so there's a guy a professor in the University of Brussels who got a global price for that in 1970s and in the last thing he actually wrote was a book in 1996 called the endless certainty so it's the end of certainty time chaos and a new laws of nature and I really liked the way that he's actually starting from the what we really understand from thermal advanced termite dynamics to get a better inside of what?

55:27
Is happening at the the quantum level and that aligns exactly with this whole idea of everything is like fractal structural fractal yeah, the problem is fractals are very often just considered the the recursive structure well if you actually look at the essence of a fractal is about fracture it's about being rough edges and and how you can actually start measuring with that so that I know there's always quite some confusion of the the recursive name.

56:02
Nature and the fractal nature but I follow you. I mean it's it's always all the time this this dissipative system popping up at at the next emerging level and that's kind of lines which with the stuff that philosophers are doing with the emerging vector theory the emerging mind. Emerging vector theory, so that's that's that's something philosophers are pretty heavy on at the moment and to to stop trying to to yeah.

56:38
I'll try to look it up and see if I can give you a link but if you want there is actually I recently had a talk with a car a guy called Alexander Bart and we we talk about things like tribal policies and emerging factor theory. I know he's he's a big defender of those kind of theories but we actually have this group called intellectual deep web where we have like this meaningless discussions talking deeper on this topics.

57:12
All right, um, let's see. I was also a Carl or anyone else does anyone else want to say something else is pause. Well I was more sorry not to interrupt Carl if you have something to say go ahead but if not I just wanted to bring back the conversation there to Chrome biology for just a second and quantum tunneling in the role of whether there might be any space there to discover more about free will because it seems like there's absolutely no evidence for free will and plenty of evidence against its but I'm wondering if you know, some some of the questions that quantum biology bring up for us and consciousness.

57:58
Have anything to do with me well at all. And so what might happen I would like to refer to adults. I mean, if you look at the the work done of Mona has been doing around brain activities and eventually coming to mathematics of the free wave particle there's kind of we have a very different way of looking at the the whole quantum level.

58:26
So but you may actually try to to have a look at his work. So, that's a, Personal and I think it's the case against reality. The case against reality is done half DON'T. So I have a different recommendation. I recommend a book called the Neural Basis of Free. Will by Peter Tse is the neural basis of free will criteria causation by Peter T S E Peter Ulrich T S E.

59:01
And and and that so that so that um, So heat so Peter is making the argument, um sort of that so so it's like so organisms are making decisions and that are thoughts are are neurons are detecting quint are detecting, you know information they're detecting information is versus coincidence patterns and then and then detecting features and and objects and, And and are neural networks are.

59:41
What am I trying to say I So at some point we where our neural networks are considering information, they're considering the models of reality that they've collected and they're they're predicting possible futures and then they're sort of like making a decision towards the some future that they liked more or that you liked more you like, maybe you liked the orange or maybe like that Apple but it's your, It's your mind your consciousness that has received information considered information and made a decision towards one possible future or another and it's it's like you're my but it's like that mind is not I think of that mind is not separate from physics that decision is not separate from physics and I think people get into trouble and say, okay, well well, you know if you have okay, so if you had no consciousness itself, no one had consciousness but our brains just made decisions so like grab oranges or grab apples would it would anyone like I Said some of.

01:00:44
Us made up this argument but would anyone like you know need to? Well I mean if so if someone was conscious and they were watching this happen, you know, like if we're ever would in that scenario, why would we need wild anyone if there's no consciousness why would anyone need free well, it's like so this idea is like the idea free well it came from I think this idea that the free will is sort of separate from physics or that the mind is separate from the brain, you know, that that it's not the same thing that it's not the mind isn't the brain somehow and but if if if you don't have a separate self.

01:01:21
Um, if you just are one with the universe the then um, there's no separate self to be making any decisions it's just uh, it's just you know, the organism that is used making decisions right but it's not separate from the universe and so there's like well there's no conflict between you making doing what you want and and so and in in making the choices that you want to make but those choices you're not gonna be free from physics, and as soon as you like phrase in terms of like, Are you saying wait, are you saying that my choices are free from physics and everybody says no no they're not they're not free from that's not what we're saying but alright, but aren't you saying like that my my mind is not connected to to my brain it's like somehow like it doesn't interact with my with my brain it's not what you're saying.

01:02:12
I mean, then they say no no that's not what we're saying that's like it and only works the the argument only works if that if you don't let if they let you prevent them from. From getting into the fine details like as soon as like yeah your mind is based on physics you're you're you're decisions are gonna be based on physics, you're not gonna escape physics, so what exactly are you trying to say your will is free from what is your what what you need your will to be free from do you need your will to be free from physics or or like really like what does it what does idea come from it's like me it will so I think I think that maybe the idea free will in our culture is like it's like, you know, my my brain controls my hand, my brain doesn't control my friends hand doesn't control.

01:02:59
Your hand so your will is free from my will your wheels free from other people's will and everyone has their own free will from each other to some extent and I think that's what it means, but there's no separate there's no separate self to be making decisions, there's just this idea of self and there's like conscious thoughts that are part of the process of making decisions and and would with with quantum with the quantum realm gives us if it gives us additional data patterns through microtubules.

01:03:32
You know maybe maybe gives us like some randomness or maybe gives us some additional information we didn't have before or sends and receiving more information, but if we have things like if all you're doing is adding and receiving more information and it's like basically like it's like imagine imagine you have like a computer and the end and the computer processes 10 applications a day and then you say okay, we're gonna like add some quantum effects all right adding quantum effects to the computer okay, so it's not a quantum computer what's different well instead of processing ten ten files per day now with the quantum effects the computer.

01:04:07
Process. 11 files per day, and we're gonna make an argument that that means if a computer has free well. No it's still a computer even if you add quantum effects to it and so a human being is still a human being even if you add quantum effects that's what I'm saying, it's just like the same it's gonna be the same process yeah follow you all the way.

01:04:33
Say something is been waiting for. Yeah.

01:04:40
Hi there yeah.

01:04:44
We can be enlightened through the use of multidisciplinary. Infection.

01:04:54
Your break you're you're breaking up a little bit. Cecile and I think I'll cartial curls also. Thank you. The floor is yours. Yeah, I can hear you very well to feel you're breaking up a lot right now for me, maybe. I just got off but anyway what I want to say earlier is that.

01:05:20
And believe that the point of view yeah yeah breaking up again. Too bad you have this bad connection so and I really want to hear coral if you don't mind. I problem the conversations being fantastic I've been in here for about I've never 345 minutes now a lot of it has been over my head a little bit older not so much over my head but rapidly expanding my horizons.

01:05:47
I I don't have a background in in neuroscience or philosophy, but this has been incredibly interesting and one thing that the center of my mind is as as everybody's been talking and giving sort of the back and forth and and and whatnot has been. A lot of this just seems about perspective as in you know, we were talking and talking about the front define consciousness and what not and.

01:06:21
You know we're saying you know rock doesn't have consciousness but then could a tree have consciousness, you know, a human has consciousness because can can an ape have consciousness and it just seems and then we went all the way up to a sort of cosmic level or solar system level and is it not?

01:06:38
I mean this may be a very fundamental thing that I've just never heard about before but is it not just the case where all really talking about here is is perspective as if you take a perspective of size and the perspective of time as in if you take a tree for instance and you were to invite someone.

01:06:56
Along who hadn't studied before and to look at a tree and say he's the tree conscious and the person would say, well know the tree is unconscious it's not it's not doing anything it's not reacting to anything you show that person a time lapse of the day with the sun going overhead or maybe external and factors acting on the tree, then you would see reactions you would see processes happening.

01:07:17
As a reaction to an extent and stimulus. So that point then you could say well the tree is conscious of something it has I love that definition of of a decoder. I think it was a current member who was talking I think it was a mica. Yeah, sorry. I've just put you.

01:07:34
Yeah, I love that because yeah that kind of makes logical sense to my very untrained mind but then if you if you keep going up, you know, you say work a humans are conscious to something if you go up even for the week, so when a country mentioned a country or state.

01:07:52
Well if the state is the state is is has these individual points of electrical firings which are as individual people and then as a whole is then reacting to other states as an organism is that they're not a level of consciousness and if you go up even further you said a solar system you spread across a solar system or a galaxy versus a galaxy if you have one galaxy filled with people or you know, a spreading of people different people different aliens civilizations whatnot, you know, we're talking about those bubbles joining together.

01:08:25
I think it was. Ben when I first came to the room so that then again you got consciousness then in my mind what you're saying is and I'm literally verbal verbally regurgitating you're trying to make sense of this what I do apologize if this isn't very coherent. At that point then we talking about just when there is a lens is in when you have a system a chaotic system, so if you look at our brain of that chaotic system even down to that the quantum level of the things firing at such a level which for our current technology is very hard to map and predict and then above that you.

01:09:02
Have a cognitive lens which tries to make sense of that and order it and and I imagine you have that you have that sort of, you know, it is is that is that a the defining point of it or is there something special about as human beings in our current state which defines consciousness different, you know, do we have something special or is there something unique that happens, you know, either as a whole in the system or with that that lends that cognitive lens, which is which is trying.

01:09:37
To tease out chaos the order out of chaos or direct a system of chaos assistant special or does it just depend on your perspective, you know, if you change your your frame of reference of time and size could you classify anything as conscious?

01:09:59
Right that's the essence of this essential question, if you if you the same the second you can define consciousness as some as you know, something is conscious and something isn't conscious then you've proven to yourself at least that in you maybe still can't convince everyone else but you've proven to yourself at least.

01:10:19
That that not everything is conscious as soon as you have a definition of what of consciousness that isn't absolutely everything then you then then you don't then you no longer have hand psychisms, right? I think that earlier spectrum. Meaning about.

01:10:43
Well then a binary with consciousness or is that just from our perspective it looks that way from our current lens, you know, and that you know past the sliding scale it's just that we just can't see because you know on another dimension we're just we just can't see it, you know, we can't fathom it yeah exactly.

01:11:01
I have exact thoughts we were we were I was that your listening is that with the finding consciousness consciousness given our current referential frame, you know, we have we have eyes we have ears we have taste buds, we have these sensors and we have the ability to to introspectively.

01:11:18
Sort of look inwards but then you could just as easily have an organism above us which has let's say above is just you know, just as a reference above is it with an extra sense for the net, you know with a with the ability to sense? I don't know let's let's be ridiculous the ability to send sort of electromagnetic fields built it built into that that creature to a degree where it could actually use it to sense and interpret its way around the world that different set of century inputs is going to give it a completely different sense of reality and it may look at us and our way of Defining consciousness is ridiculous because how could we possibly be defining consciousness or even contemplate consciousness without while we're missing this unique frame of reference or this this sense that that this higher being in air quotes has so then you're back to well, it's just, you know, your point of reference you happen to be looking from you can you can define it as well as you can given your tools.

01:12:19
You know, I just I just really I just really wanted to take a moment to appreciate with Dasha and Carl are saying that's just really beautifully said yeah, this is perfect just like I just I appreciate that perspective so much. I I feel like I've figured it all out personally and so for me to hear other people say that they haven't is just.

01:12:41
It's wonderful but I'll share with everybody if you want so like I so like I don't think that it's that it's it's my my opinion feel free to disagree. I don't think that it's the electricity in the brain and I don't think that that but but what I think is like so there's like the there's this idea that consciousness, you know, we're we have models of reality and the models are connected to other models and you have you know, your brain is is making a model of the parts of your brain are making models of everything in your environment you have.

01:13:17
You have a cortical columns that are recognizing a cortical column is if bringing together like the the 3d model of every object of one object and another cortical college bringing together all the 3d properties of another object and so if you pick up something like your phone, the cortical column is integrating the the visual information the sensory information.

01:13:36
I mean the touch information like how the phone what how the phone is oriented relative to you and so you have basically in the brain you have all these neuro columns working together to integrate all these different models together. This experience that you have if you if you take your your your room right now or you're or you're if you're outside if you take the space you're in right now and yourself those are all those are all like every every object and every thought and every consideration including just abstract ideas are just managed by different neuro columns integrating different pieces of information that are constructing this it's like this movie this four-dimensional movie where we're but it's like a multi-layer movie what it's like as multi-scale it's got all these different objects in it and it's and it's it's got like there's patterns of.

01:14:24
Like you know what what are your feelings where are you feelings well you know are you feeling this peeking they're all four dimensional patterns the smell out there's four dimensional like what's the peak of a smell what's the space of a smell every thought every feeling every emotion has these four dimensional patterns so they can be described basically as tempo and spatial patterns and so everything you can think of is a temple spatial pattern inside a temple space for pattern the room that you're in the fillings that you're having and so we have the input they're all they're all connected to.

01:14:59
Together they're all interesting together you can be aware of all of them to more or less extent as you as you're as you're focused shifts around as you think about the room we think about your feelings you focus just but you can be aware of the interconnection between all the different feelings, they're all temple spatial patterns, the brain has the brain specializes in temple spatial patterns all the electrical firing is frequency patterns and spatial patterns all over the place and all over this place is exactly what we would need if we wanted to create a simulation of of of a consciousness that was temporal and spatial patterns but not only.

01:15:34
That it's like it's like the the these are not it's it's not the electricity itself, it's not the it's not really even the neurons themselves it's it's the the patterns which are just information and they're and that's that's an important point because it's the information is basically non-physical but it requires a physicality to move to move between but it can be like you can have an idea anywhere in your brain you can have the idea of of a of a cup could could be represented by any neural column in theory, it's not the way it's going to work out but But it's the it's because the brain is like a general learn it's like it's like imagine the brain is like a like um it's not just like one piano it's like having a million pianos in your head and so like any of these pianos can play a tune this be here right and so when neuro when neuro medical imagers look at your brain and say okay, okay, so which so which so where is the the pattern that represents the sound that you just heard and in so they look for the pattern and it and they see oh there's a pattern okay, let's look again, we'll see if they'll see if it's if we got it right and then it this the the pattern it's not it's a different pattern the second time what What's going on here and then it's a different pattern the third time I don't understand it why is why why do we can't have it the same pattern the same place every single time it's like different it's like you have all these different pianos and when one one piano is is done playing and another another piano decides to play that play that tune and so the information itself moves around it's like virtual it's not even connected to to your to to one area or another's necessarily it's it's it's it moves freely and so what I'm saying is like we have this like virtual information pack.

01:17:17
That's not the electricity of the brain, it's not even it's not really even the the brain itself it's just it can move around and and and so we have we have. But you don't but but it's basically it's basically like it's not like information it's not like information theory it's not I mean it's not integrated information theory it's not global workspace theory it's it's not integrated map theory it's it's it's like virtual models theory right it's like virtual model there, yes.

01:17:47
I write that down and and so the whole thing is like you have these virtual models and and so so the the whole thing is like, But yeah, so it's like you're.

01:18:09
I love. How.

01:18:15
You're becoming the world pools you're it yourself, you know right now and I it's it's wonderful. I have a question that I would love to ask about thoughts on this I work in in virtual reality. I've been a performer in in a VR experience for the last year and a half and have been also seeing some new things about being able to with like knurling and, Neuro like being able to control games and you know computers or VR with your mind in the future and it has been already kind of proven with the small amount of hardware out there so.

01:19:00
That is a topic that I would love to know if there has been more going on and anything available right now with a user interface that's like potentially a performer could have a different interface than an audience and if there are anything if anyone knows anymore information about that right now.

01:19:24
Did you say neuralink?

01:19:31
With like controlling a phone with your mind but there is a company called like a Lucid link that was doing like neuro gaming of like controlling VR with your mind by there's like a device that you just put on the outside of the headset on the back of your head and you essentially are just you know, there there are areas in your brain that are firing off when you think of with your right hand picking up that object and you can essentially do that already with this device.

01:20:06
That has is just on the very outside of your of your head on the back, it's it's it's not you know fine-tuning yet but it I watched a demo of it on a YouTube link, that was pretty. Have flew my mind. And as a as a performer in virtual reality is alive performer in virtual reality.

01:20:27
I was like wow, this could like really change the game with by didn't have to use controllers and. Just it just seems like a whole a whole nother level without having a chip implemented into my brain. But. Yeah, I just since this was a room of people that that no more about all this.

01:20:50
I was I was wondering whether anyone knows any further developments in terms of. Non-invasive hardware, that is out there, that is picking up on. Brainwaves in order to use it for storytelling or entertainment purposes. I in fact do have so I was part of a room the other night and we reviewed a paper which which I think you think would I think you would totally like and it was it was called oh my gosh, let me look on my LinkedIn, but it was called.

01:21:26
I guess I'm sorry it must be late at night because I I actually started talking before being ready to talk. Let me see. It was just a really cool paper. I'm almost there. Everyone likes my post yesterday. Okay, so it was called and you might see gonna want to look this up.

01:21:46
It's called hybrid. EEG - F nurse. Based eight command decoding for BCI application to quadcopter control. So this was like really really cool if you're if you're into the topic of controlling things with with PCI, they by combining two different modalities EEG and F nearest together they were able to have more more control over the quadcopter than they could with just one modality because, With one modality you.

01:22:32
With it like for example, just EEG your yours, you're sort of like the more buttons you try to to enable the worst your accuracy gets. But if with two modalities, you can have more buttons without losing your accuracy and so this is a really cool paper to check out that I think you would like.

01:23:00
Does anyone else want to jump in? I I have one more thought but I can wait. I will say ask you a question. Go for it, go for it. Were you can? Recommendations for Dasha first. Sorry. It was I know I had a I had I was connect when I connected something I was saying before to something other people were talking about before but I can wait.

01:23:24
Oh well, I wanted to refer back to something Carl said in response to you, but Dasha do you feel like you got an answer to your question? Oh for sure. Yeah, I will also would love to go back to a Carl was talking about and also hyperspace the book was what kind of got me thinking about like another dimension being just impossible to see so that's also a book that I enjoyed that stemmed back to Carl's thought.

01:23:53
Can I say I Oh, sorry, go ahead. I go ahead. Sorry. Thanks. My name is Chris. And I appreciated Carl talking about perspective mentioning perspective and I was having a similar question and like Carl I am a little out of my league here but as an artist I've had a long time interest in sort of reconciling actually.

01:24:25
Scientific views and. Primitive views and magical views. I always kind of feel like there's got to be it there's got to be some sort of reconciling description. So when Carl mentioned perspective it I was going to ask a similar question and rather than aren't these all a matter of perspective it's sort of I also feel like it's in a way it's a matter of.

01:24:59
Description and sometimes you know, like they're for example, there's sort of a might be useful to make a distinction between. Sensitivity awareness intelligence. And consciousness and information for that matter and because I am and it's easy to sort of conflate different scales when you're throwing words around like this and.

01:25:28
I feel like well I wonder if you've read the work of Ian McGill Christ who's recently been writing about the split brain and and describing how. From his perspective consciousness, rather than a state. That you either have or don't have is more like a process and I think this is similar to what you were saying at least I saw a similarity mica between this idea and what you were talking about about these this kind of the freedom of these information pathways these activity pathways.

01:26:09
And he describes in great details sort of the relationship between the left and the right brain in what I take to be our most contemporary understanding of it and again, I'm really uncalled to. To know that for certain but but in this relationship between sort of inner self and outer world inner inner sensitivity and outer sensitivity this this this oscillation between.

01:26:43
Relationships to the world to everything to reality there is a. There is a necessary process there in which paradoxes are being reconciled, you know impossible choices are being made sensitivities are being understood and it's really in that dynamic process that that meaning is sort of generated and and if you describe it as a process then you can also map it onto a spectrum or or more like a space like a color space there's a and so you can then talk about greater or less.

01:27:26
Er degrees and so I suppose on some level you could go to the ultras subtle, you know, like a rock has like as close to zero as you can get and and exist as a coherent, you know mass and then you could probably go and the other direction up to something that that we don't really understand and somewhere in the middle is our embodied.

01:27:54
Norm that's really like an offer is just kind of a way of describing it that seems to me to the you can map a lot of different descriptions onto that it seems to me and I when I ready and McGilchrist it was my first glimpse of feeling like ah this this actually might be the, Sort of theory of everything description that that all these different perspectives can.

01:28:28
Can can can find some sort of description, so thanks thanks for the chance as a fascinating conversation. I really appreciate it my. Does anyone want to jump in after that or say something? I have more thoughts, but I'll wait for other people to go.

01:28:48
Because like the least, you know in your perspective the least if you're looking at a spectrum. Would be kind of constituting the least have they having at least consciousness if I again would bring it back to perspective like Carl was saying that the rock is actually just part of the entire earth which you could argue has more consciousness with how the earth and the rocks and the lava and all of the the whole earth itself Earth as a matter has a lot more changing and adapting to what is going on in the universe so.

01:29:29
Again, I feel like it bringing it back to like. Frame or lens like Carl was saying is a very valuable thing to kind of keep circleing back to. I like to connect is actually to something that was mentioned earlier about my bed who left the room but the, There is this kind of also problem in cosmology related to fine-tuning problem and so on and what I can see is that if you if you take like a what I like to call an interface theory of everything.

01:30:11
So we can actually better start understanding how the limited ability for us to integrate the the experience allows us a lot of fully understand what God costs consciousness in the cosmos. Actually means and. At there is a very easy way to to show that to people and that's by job.

01:30:45
I can't hear you. I don't know for the people. You wrote you cut out right when you're gonna. Everything. Okay, try again. Okay, so. The so what I see so. So what I see as the interface of everything it's it's the idea that we are put.

01:31:11
The answer is 42 doesn't want us. Ers.

01:31:22
The Brady won't let you the universe will not let you know you figured it out. I think yeah, absolutely you're on the right track clearly. Yeah. I know this is happening all the time. We're actually waiting more than you think but three is a magical number so you have to try at least three times.

01:31:39
But for me four is a magical number but and I actually discovered a bit of mathematics that shows that as well, so I'm trying to figure out why? Well what at least three or four times go ahead. Yeah. I like five. Oh, well, I I'm sticking to four. The so what I'm seeing is is that the fact that we have this way to integrate information and be aware of the experience we are having it always relates to the way we can do that.

01:32:19
And understanding that there's like more consciousness in the cosmos that we simply cannot fully understand because of our the way we are perceiving it all and integrating it all and you could. Back. Should already show it pretty easy by just looking how different people are in respect to empathy.

01:32:40
So, I'm. As a.

01:32:49
We understand the world but I see other people who have for example a lot of empathy related to the social cohesion and I can't fully understand them and they can't fully understand me so already there there's like a disconnection to the things we are trying to integrate. So and one of the things I really find fascinating is that some blind people have learned to to use echolocation to to visualize the world around them.

01:33:19
And so, they move more into the, The experience that also bets have with the world. So so we don't even need to go that far we can just look at each other and as mirrors and understand how each of us is limited in the way we perceive the world.

01:33:38
And if we try to extrapolate that kind of limitless already between us to limitless between me and Iraq, that's that's crazy. And so I had this talk with Bob Hoffman about it because he's working pretty well on that interface theory and and so so between me and, A cat for example it still doable.

01:34:01
I can still have like a coordination going on with me and the cats but me and an ant that's that's already totally impossible and yeah this living clearly some kind of conscious thing. So if you try to to use that line of thought about consciousness, you really see how limited we are between by the frame of reference we have I makes a little speaking.

01:34:29
I'm correctly sorry. I go hiker, thank you sorry. I had a brain fart earlier while Mike was speaking and mixed so that's the perfect segue into what popped into my head is that if Mike it is Michael my pronouncing that correctly yes, that's how I pronounce it, yeah. That's right, that's perfect.

01:34:55
When you were talking about the the, Consciousness or recognizing the systems in perceiving the system, you're just not electricity it's not this it's not that it's not mechanical it's it's the ability to take the information and pass it. I wonder if you if you take that and go further with it if you get to a point in the development of a civilization where you could just, Classify consciousness as as the accuracy to a particular system as in humans may not even register on the scale because although we're conscious we don't have enough accuracy in the system.

01:35:41
So so we we can perceive an environment around us we just can't do it accurately enough. So you could literally I wonder if you know that it's an inevitability that you just have a simple scoring system, you know, how to what degree can that creature can that be? Cannot be rendered or describe or process this ex environment or the environment around them to what accused accuracy but then as mixer was just talking there because you brought up empathy which haven't come into my mind.

01:36:15
I had the complete opposite thought which is what if you define it as actually the ability to completely ignore your current surroundings and instead take yourself out and move your ability move your your have the ability to move your referential frame into like, What we're talking about empathy into somebody else's and that's that's a very different dividing line because then you're talking about the ability to to take yourself, you know, if you say that person over there to take yourself out and put your existence or your referential from into theirs, which you know, which is a can to imagination and and extrapolations so yes to completely opposite ends, you know, as far as they could be really.

01:37:04
Yeah well Karl for me those are an opposite ends it's it's it is it's like the two sides of the same coin so the it's it's like you need shadow to see any shape so it's it's not it's not a contradiction it's it's a it's it's a different in perspective and you you really remind me a lot about the talk.

01:37:28
I did have with withdonald hoffman about this where the way he looks at it is also like we are filtering a lot of all the complexity out to. Actually make sense of the things we love so so it is a combination of because if you have all the information at all the times you basically get into this entropic state where it's like everything is gray right it means you there wouldn't be any taste if you start mixing super the the main dish and the dessert all together in a blender and that try to swallow that that's gonna be terrible so you need this differentiations and separations to actually have any kind of game going on anyway and, So but that really resonates a lot with with with the I'm gonna I'm gonna just now send a tweet to a YouTube channel.

01:38:24
I have called deep digital friends and the both the discussion. I recently had with Alexander. Bart about the the tropoiesis and the the talk I had with Don Hoffman really resonates a lot with the the talks we're having here so. I mix along not speaking now it folks got it folks, click on Mixels profile and click on Twitter and they look at the most recent tweet, they can see what he's the tweet that he's tweeting, right?

01:38:55
Thanks yes. Okay. I I I realized after doing that a few times it's some sometimes you know, people when you say check my Twitter, they don't exactly know they're supposed to click on your profile first yeah, click on the profile and then then the twitter. I. Can now I can share my idea.

01:39:15
So so so the the profits to the idea is that if we can define what consciousness is and then then then we no longer have to say that. Then then then no longer do we have what is it called pants likeism if we don't have we don't have that anymore because it's because it because conscious has to be everything right but you know if we can say if we can say what it is now now the problem so dashing and wasn't dashing Carl or or the names move around but so some people were saying that that, I just remembered it was the person in the first column and the second and the like the second row and the person in the third column in the second row sometimes names move around, um, so the so the the what was said was um was was that well, maybe we don't understand what consciousness was and and so then I can't I came up with another theory of consciousness which is my there's a bunch of theories right but what I'm so what I'm saying, so so my argument here is that so um that what's up so um, what what you know, I actually wrote it down, so I wouldn't have to be like, Something around um so yeah so Carl was a Carlos saying rendered describe and process into what accuracy that was really great.

01:40:38
I like I wrote that down too that's really great no no I was thinking something about is it is because brains are doing a very special process yeah that's that's that's that that was that was the thing that I want to respond to yeah so brains are doing something very special so if you look if you comparing a rock you say so the argument from for pan cycles is that there's a spectrum from like a consciousness from something as simple as a rock.

01:41:04
To something as like a human being to something like a galaxy there's a spectrum of consciousness and they there's different ranges right that's that's sort of like the one of the one of the arguments what episode but not those arguments don't include computers, no one says, okay, there's a second of consciousness from from a rock to human being to a computer and into a galaxy they never mentioned the computers and the thing is like a computer like the complexity of it can be vastly greater than the complexity of an insect but the inside can do things the computer can't do the computer can be vastly more complex than the than.

01:41:39
The mouse in terms of what it can do but it versus the mouse but it's not a conscious, you know, we know it's this the computer's conscious but why not because there's something very specific about what what brands are doing that that computer does not doing yet and so the computer can can render it can describe it can process to what accuracy though.

01:42:00
I mean greater accuracy of the human beings right, but so why isn't the computer conscious yet and and that's where I think this this, you know, this idea that we we are. That are our brain doing something very special that rocks are not doing so. We're creating models of reality, but we're we're creating models of reality that are are.

01:42:26
Able to because of the the the because of how the brain works they're able to to slide around and move around and connect with other models of reality and all the models of reality are able to to interact with each other so you can see you can have you can have a cup right and maybe that's represented by part of your brain and then when you throw it from your from your right hand to your left hand guess what has to change see when it was in your right hand you had all of your you you had your you had a neuro column that was representing your hand and the cup together the right but it was representing the right hand.

01:43:01
In the cup together well the right hand is not located where the left hand is located in your brain so you toss the cup over to your left hand now you have to have a neuro column that's that's that's that's talking to your left hand that's integrating the bottle that's in your left hand even though it is the same bottle that was in your right hand so the brain activity has to change it's it's like it's like it has to move around so as stuff moves around in your environment it has to move around in your brain and and there's a rock is not doing that that is the your mind is mines are doing that and so that's a special thing.

01:43:36
That minds are doing that rocks are not doing the computers are not doing and and and so and so if you know that then you can then you know to yourself you can put yourself and pants psychism is is not it that's all that's it. I'm making that's it.

01:43:55
I wonder if you just talking back computers they're having the accuracy and the perception but still it's it'll be difficult to argue that this consciousness there is this getting a little bit into AI and the techniques that a lot of AI companies are working on but I wonder if it's just because there's too much accuracy there's not enough chaos there's not enough randomization in the system for it to for it to.

01:44:23
Generate something which we would cause chaos is too linear is to ordered yeah maybe that's it and that leads our likes that that leads on to some places now discovered for AI learning that it's much better to give a very loose set of a loose set of orders all limitations and just let the system work itself out in a chaotic sense.

01:44:52
Well that's kind of funny though, there is a session by. Wait a minute that all it's called criticality and complexity and it's exactly what describing this difference between on the one hand you have a lot of entropy on the other hand you have no entropy so and but complexity is in between it so I'll try to give the link with my Twitter actually just give the previously with the Twitter where you actually go into the mathematics, of course knowledge on how you can understand the emerging of complexity as the, Face between low entropy and high entropy.

01:45:37
I'll pinpoint the exact moment he starts talking about that and showing the the signs the mathematics of it. So check my tweets in a few seconds. Fire my profile. I do like the theory that they're just hasn't been enough aloud to the computer like we haven't fitted the chaos of the of the universe enough.

01:45:58
Wasn't there some something that happened with two computers that they were they? Were allowed to kind of talk back and forth and make their own language and they started doing something so Outlandish that they had to like shut the whole thing down because it was like getting out of control.

01:46:17
Oh man, I wish I could remember what it was but it was it was some sort of experiment with I don't know where there was like a translation system or just two computers were that were allowed to communicate back and forth and they started making up their own language that became so separate from what the organizers of the research were doing that they got nervous and just shut the whole thing down, but if that's what it's, Reminding me of.

01:46:48
I hope anyone want to respond to that. I think that's was just describing when my Alexa accidentally picks up my Siri and they interpreted. No, this is something that was a that was a study that they were doing that then. They were you know, just getting I guess nervous that some they were getting too close to a singularity and just just shut it down, but um, I think I remember that story and I think these two computers were.

01:47:21
Started to sort of manifest what appeared to be malevolent language of some kind. Yes, yes, that's yes, that's what I am thinking of this exact story. Yes, I don't remember the details either but it was quite remarkable. But I guess while I'm on if it's okay. I'll just I just want to Mike I really, I really enjoy listening to you.

01:47:46
I mean, I and I I just feel like I still feel like there's some sort of language there's some where the language is sort of a hall of mirrors and. You're you I understand if I understand what you're saying that you know the if you understand this mechanism there is no more pansychism and and I just keep thinking well, it just depends how you want to describe it really like I'm not so sure why you can't talk about you can't in any given scenario can't you can't talk about extreme degrees.

01:48:27
I suppose I would agree that. There is a point of absurdity where placing something on a on a graph is just is just meaningless because it's in a whole other. But it's still it still can be. I don't know. I think I get genetic there's a poetic value. I find a poetic value, you know, but I know that's not you guys are from this is not a poet's room, so I'm just gonna listen thank you.

01:48:57
I really oh yes it is. Yeah, we're just gentle we're just joking around this is happy hour but um, I you can you know, you can write you can tell you if you want to share a poem you can I I think but um, I don't know these. I don't know who's in charge maybe mix those in charge,

01:49:17
um, I I verses I would like to respond if I can.

01:49:25
Yeah, well I'll go okay okay, um, so I so so um the so I like the idea that there's a spectrum between the smallest brains possible and the largest brains possible. Um, That between an insect's brain and are between just like a basic nervous system or basic or basic brain stem, you know all the way up to the the really interesting complexities of the human mind and so I think there's a spectrum there be with with um hardware that um matches that is capable of running a certain kind of process.

01:50:14
And and and that's the key there there's hardware that's running a certain kind of process and that would be like most most of the brains and so there's there there would be spectrum of consciousness from conscious to unconscious and it would it would and and don't know exactly how that spectrum works but but but I imagine the smaller the brain the the,

01:50:42
I don't want to just even finish that thought but but I just like I matter to some sort of spectrum there between brains but but not but a rock wouldn't be included because a rock is a different process that's that's what I'm thinking oh I hear you as the son of the librarian.

01:50:58
I appreciate your categorical. Neatness. I totally hear you loud and clear. Thanks.

01:51:15
I wonder if maybe proper in an inverted commas consciousness and awareness will be achieved once we actually merge and meld in some former another with computers in some sort of Android or side org instance because then you have the accuracy to potentially perceive or maybe you know, if you were talking about, Hardware adding hardware to the human body maybe potentially perceiving infinitely but then the chaos the human mind underneath and the ability to dream and imagine and be empathic.

01:51:55
So I've started to absurd to vote in my life to doing three things. One is to solving an earliest or nerve gear basically the ultimate brain computer interface that plugs into the matrix or allows you to experience AR and VR just via direct brain stimulation and close with therapy.

01:52:10
The second thing I am planning to do is to create artists or cortex. So if you are missing part of your brain, then you could just Replace it with our artificial cortex or you could extend your brain into a larger brain with this our cortex which interfaces with your brain naturally and processes basically information the exact same way.

01:52:28
And it could be but not necessarily with the same hardware but basically with the same function Functions. And that would that artistic cortex would be capable of of conscious of being a component of consciousness and then the third product of course is artificial brains that would be entirely separate but also capable of consciousness and so so so what I'm saying getting.

01:52:52
Into the point is that I believe that we could create the process that the brains have that enables them what I'm defining is consciousness, what what I think we are thinking of as cautiousness but being but but it's difficult to describe. I think we could take that process that experience and I think we could we could bring that process into a computer and make a computer conscious.

01:53:19
Current computers don't have the right architecture software architecture and and and, They have to many hardware limitations at the moment but future computers will have vastly improved hardware computational hardware and in vastly improved software and that software a new neural networking architectures will enable true consciousness the way the way human brains have cautious human level consciousness and beyond in computers.

01:53:58
That's that's what I said I believe but I don't think the chatbots will accidentally become. Conscious ever because it's not the right structure. Can I see your question about that? Yeah that your your statement again. I I would I'm interested if you have if you are familiar with the Ian McGill Chris he's actually a psychiatrist but writes, um, About the neurobiology of consciousness.

01:54:27
You're really really interesting to me, but um. One of the things that he mentions and I've also heard mentioned in other. Discussions of the nature of human consciousness is the. The vitality of embodiment in the process. And so you know because we're getting all this sense data and we're interpreting it as you beautifully described with all of this.

01:55:02
I forget the exact terminology you use but I was sort of visualizing this kind of almost projection mechanism where we're applying tremendous amount of information that we already have associations so that is correct and some of it is in error probably um, so we have this kind of. Very complex reality that we're both experiencing and.

01:55:28
Interpreting and affecting so it's this kind of real-time complexity that involves embodiment as a crucial component, so how does that how does that fit into your your proposed model of hardware complexity conscience? That's my question yeah yeah, so I have thoughts but I'm a I'm a little slow right now because it's late so let me there's leave it open for a minute and I get let other people to maybe either answer that or share some thoughts and and then I'll come back to that.

01:56:13
Let's get slave everywhere, yeah.

01:56:21
It's way late here. I really should be asleep but this is too interesting. I know same I was about to go to sleep when I just popped in here and this is it's impossible to leave it's off it's known in Brussels now so but I just did it was morning.

01:56:40
I mean, I have a separate kind of question about healing which is completely unrelated so after I don't want to you know, bring it a whole other topic though if we were before in the process of wrapping other things up. I'll throw it out with it for a while.

01:57:01
Sorry to jump in for because now about the consciousness for the machine itself when there is a situation when a machine need to make a decision, how did the mechanism or a method a machine can make the decision based on a certain value so the value system of the machine how you teach or the the machine?

01:57:35
To value a certain situation like human.

01:57:44
Okay, so um, so the so there's a. There's a lot of lot of work that's been done by other people. I can sort of talk about that that could be relevant with the answers that the answers are on different scales of magnitude depending on your level of focus, there's many different scales of answers related to to this to this so I could talk about you know, like there's a like, you know, how how like at a, An architectural level how the the the future neural networks will make decisions in a granular way.

01:58:25
Based on some analysis of how the brains make decisions and in extremely granular way at the at the neuron and neural circuit level but but that's one level of focus and other level of focus is is to you know, basically how will machines learn all the relevant information and and so there's a work of you know, many neuroscientists and that's what every deep learning engineers who who want to basically create who want to train our.

01:59:00
Official general intelligence is to not only do the same to not only like be able to at least do the same things that children can do but but sort of like raise artificial intelligence as as as our the way you would raise a children first and then turn and then turn that child into an adult but walk them through basically a lifespan of training in in sort of like the same sort of like, you know along with you as.

01:59:30
As maybe you'll be a virtual being or a little robot but it will learn along with you over over the course of a lifespan and and maybe you'll have many people have a little robots with them and those you'll the the robots will learn sort of like knowledge at the temporal pace of human being starting so they learn to understand that you know, because it takes a human being, you know, 20 plus years.

01:59:53
To to learn some things, you know, right sometimes it takes a human being 30 30 or 40 plus years or so under something yeah. I'm only 40 so I mean, I imagine there are things that I won't learn until I'm 50 right because it takes 50 years to learn those things and.

02:00:11
And so so but but you know, but but maybe once we have one machine that has gone through that journey with us as human beings and and understands the information that matters to us the way the way we understand it that then and perhaps we could sort of just copy that machine and copy their knowledge and and, The way you copy a hard drive and maybe at some point we'll be able to read of course read and write to the human brain as if it was a special kind of hard drive and we could.

02:00:51
We could pass along advance information to other human beings digitally by plugging their minds through the computer here you go here's decades of knowledge and maybe maybe at some point future human beings will will have the equivalent of of millions of years of knowledge and or maybe trends of years of knowledge because at some point you could have these these computers that have been trained to understand everything that human beings have sort of like, you know go through like some sort of hypers hyperspeed hyperspace.

02:01:26
Virtual program in which they they can do they can live in in virtual civilizations at advice speed compared to the pace of life on on outside virtual reality and and when they come out of that they've lived vast, you know, the vastly longer amount of time than any human being has ever lived and and then and then that knowledge could be pulled out of them and and passed on into human beings so human beings in the future could could have.

02:02:01
Trillions of years worth of knowledge that was acquired virtually through robots that learned to to be humans by living with us. God lost their concepts, that's very reminiscent of the egg by Andy Weir, which is a wonderful source short story, that's that's like like my mind what you just said.

02:02:24
So and those are examples of robots that are embracing the the knowledge of embodiment which so many people feel so essential and so critical to consciousness. I'm of the mind that you could have an alternative form of consciousness based upon understanding was my understanding of what the conscious the conscious process is it as a process that is a process that's independent of the the of the the the data that's coming into it, that's my understanding so that so the so you could have a virtual environment or you could have just like, Abstract stock data you could have um, I mean, what what what is what would be important to the brain is the ability to make connections between different types of of data so that there's a multidimensional representation that happening but but there could be a conscious consciousness of a multidimensional representation that is unlike anything that we experiences as bodies as a bodied consciousness and in that could also that other alternative consciousness could also be conscious but in, A different sort of dimension of reality.

02:03:38
So do you think that the consciousness as you understand it requires a physical substrate of some kind like a desert require hardware. Yes, yes it does but only because there's no way to separate information from physics information is non-physical but it's like a pattern but it's never not embedded in physics, it's never not something like what about like a radio waves what about a carrier wave what about some sort of?

02:04:13

Yeah, there's still physicality there. I understand where that could go but uh, but um,

02:04:23
Disembodied as we might think in the solid since so with it so with the radio wave there's two parts right there's one and one is the wave and the other is the information and even in the radio waves like you know, it's like the the radio wave itself just like a CD-ROM and and the information is just a pattern in the CD-ROM or in the radio wave and and so it's the same sort of it's so it's it's it's um, it's just a night it's not just not a solid TV wrong.

02:04:54
Problem. I have Michelle with that feel is that still concrete, of course, we know a city realms and computers and how we store information over there, but we at the moment still have really no clue how we touch into information with the brain and I was following first. I don't know of course, right?

02:05:19
Chris yeah Chris I was following Chris with what about radio waves the so the way we approach it from from from our read. Church field which is systems and cybernetics is that it can actually first of all be described as a system and a cybernetic and that systems and cybernetics is basically something virtual but it's about creating somehow a recursion into a system you can create so I I mentioned earlier and you can actually create a virtual machine as a scaffold to create something in that virtual machine that can build an actual machine.

02:06:01
Stuff like this is happening at the moment as well, so. I want to disagree with something that was said that Mitchell said so um I and purpose like whatever like whenever I hear anybody say we don't know how I always react and turn any like I should tell them to just say, I don't know and never say we don't know because if they don't know they can't speak for everyone else, they don't know what everyone else knows no one took a survey of everybody but but what I want to say is that we sit is that it is known by at least some people how the information how the brain text information.

02:06:36
And and so you've heard of PB and learning, you know, the there's the there's some neurons detected coincidence patterns neurons attacked when two neurons downstream fire, that is the detect detection of information that isn't a book called the neural basis of free will and so that's known. Unknown. So what is known there is that something can create a pattern that something can recreate.

02:07:06
That's the thing, that's the only thing we know. No it no, it's it's that the that information can be detected. As coincidence patterns and then considered by by neurosurgeons and in stores coincidence, that's the essence as a coincidence pattern, so that cybernetics.

02:07:31
I can't tell if you're agreeing or disagreeing. I'm not sure but but that's the thing that that's been described in the 1920s and that's what we mean with with if I was referring to the Wii I was referring to the group that actually started school of thought related to assistance in cybernetics.

02:07:52
And of I mean, they made many misconceptions like every new school of thought. It all has evolved and today we talk more about complex adoptive systems and evolutionary cybernetics. So so but it's still basically the same it's the same that there are patterns you can see across domains across disciplines, which you kind of start understanding as a kind of laws of nature, but in the 1920s so that the founding moment of the the the cybernetics they started understanding that those patterns are you can describe being in a virtual way and they still say something about reality.

02:08:39
So if you create a recursion between those two you can put strap it. And that's what I've been trying to say earlier like what the things we do in with something like a bootstrapping compiler or or what we're doing with scaffolds when we build a physical buildings it's we create scaffolds as a temporal weak structure to create something more stable that can exist once we created the the feedback and once we created feedback we can take off the the the scaffold again and that the building can stand on its own.

02:09:14
So so that kind of boost trapping that's the thing that that can allow you to start creating from a virtual world like just an idea and then put that idea by action in the world and you create scaffolds first and then the thing becomes more autonomous. All right, um, so I want to go around the room and we'll wrap up soon and give everyone a chance to to say to say something and and before we wrap up and anyone who's an audience who wants compensate something before we go just um raise your hand and I will also send an invite and then after everyone has said something we'll go ahead and because I just I feel a responsibility to it's we we've had such a great conversation, but I'm keeping everyone awake except for Mexico's afternoon over in.

02:10:08
And and I don't know what time it is in mail at Manila. I'll see what happens but anyways so but for some of us it's we're up we're up to too late and our sleep is super important and so I'm I'm gonna like so I'll go ahead and pause and pause for myself it's been wonderful and and to see how deep do you want to say something next and then then we'll just go and order then dosha the Jesse Carl Chris makes little chain.

02:10:37
David etc. Can you reset a refresh the room, so that's the order is? The same oh. Okay yeah everyone okay, so I guess I guess Dave is is a is in charge of the room now um, so yeah got Dave if you want to go first and then mixol on the seal and then chain dosha Jessie Carl Chris and then I'll invite the rest of the folks if they want to come up and so thank you everybody that's the last for me and I'll go ahead and let you off finish it up.

02:11:18
So I guess Dave is a not there so asleep perhaps yeah, maybe you guys I mean yeah for me it's it's it's been a great morning right it's known now. I need to go eating also so do a lot of other stuff but it was way too fun to.

02:11:37
To leave and so thanks a lot everyone. I've learned a lot was fun to interact with all of you. I hope to see you guys again and have a continuously discussion so until the next time I've enjoyed a lot and I'm very happy to be here thanks.

02:11:57
It was a great conversation and very thankful to have listened to all of your ideas and have. Made too bad. I had a very bad signal I would have had a lot of things to say perhaps in the new future we could do a new discussion again to continue and explore what we're thinking about and researchers that has been shared in terms of the connectivity of different disciplines and complex.

02:12:31
I think you cut out.

02:12:45
Next.

02:12:53
Yes, we're dropping like five here in our brains are falling asleep, perhaps yes. I also just thank you so much for for having such a just a thorough back and forth when I joined this room that it was impossible to leave and I really appreciate you having a conversation where you disagree but are challenging each other in respectful ways.

02:13:20
I in the future would love to. Of the topic that I didn't get to tonight about the olfactory nerve and nerve healing with covet and the brain with what's going on with covet that's an interest of mine and I have some very good friends that are suffering greatly so I have a lot of questions and thoughts about that and I'd love to have a conversation done the line someday with anyone that's interested in that.

02:13:47
I want to quickly respond to that touch up because like eight years ago, we we actually tried to create a project on food security you try to guess where and try to guess what we try to prevent so I would love to to get in there we want to build a living city to improve food security for the province of Hawaii and top diplomats of the province, so that's the problem where wooha is located.

02:14:16
The top diplomats really wanted us to to work on that but we got kind of canceled out by the the our own well people frame from from Europe, so I'd love to tell you a lot more about that than I would love to go into those directions thanks.

02:14:40

02:15:25
The world outside of his cave yeah and my takeaway from this is maybe consciousness is defined at the point where you can ask if I'm conscious.

02:15:41
I'm still conscious thank you. Mike and everyone for indulging my amateur dabbling a really really fascinating and I am a lot of a lot of things that were said this evening or kind of. Fuel resonating which is all I can ask and I am actually going to leave you with an eight line poem about brain waves it's called the it's called the team brain wave action calibration chant and you have to imagine it in a call and response but I'm just going to read it in my sleepy monotone here so it goes like this delta theta alpha beta sequence switcher looper fade, again a hay flash of insight for today theta delta beta alpha plus.

02:16:34
Alpha camera camera gamma gosh stage dive into mental mush alpha beta theta delta need a nap. I'll see you later gamma gamma gamma, hey remember what you came to say beta alpha theta delta, give me sleep or give me shelter gamma gamma gamma gosh search the curl of wishy wash.

02:16:55

Audio