b0310y ctpr
(note is automatic audio transcription that needs to be fixed & edited, but the topics are relevant)
Neurophysics+NerveGear2
Psychedelics Depression Eeg
00:00
I saw a lot of topics there. Okay, can we just start with something first? And I can see if I know anything about it. Yeah, go ahead. So I mean, so yeah, so so basically to to define a broad scope. So neurophysics is about brain waves and and brain oscillations and neural circuits and then um, the other two topics are you know nerve gear which is like brain computer interfaces and that's closely related right and then we have artificial intelligence which you know, the the the topics related to artificial intelligence are pretty broad.
00:36
So, um, so I mean, I sort of like, um, I have it like this method. To a model which is like all these different how all these different topics that are connected but yeah anything inside that inside that realm there's a lot of different ways you could be the conversation you go so.
00:52
So what kind of project have you done previously on anything relayed to this topic? Okay, so um, so I had a in 2012 I opened a narrow feedback salon and an alternative biofeedback business in San Francisco and and with that involved bringing eat having EEG. Drive light and sound effects with with goggles and with LED glasses and headphones and then in 28 in the in 2018, I I brought I let a project where we co-wrote an application that brought EEG into web VR or to introvert your reality.
01:36
That's sounds pretty interesting. I think we are so very quiet hot topic right now. I got some friends they one of them working them out of us. I think it's a ugly art company working the biomedical research. I'm not just researched by just the work with the hospitals to try to visualize the people's organism we are.
02:03
So, I just wanted know if there's anything about VR that we can apply artificial that intelligence on. I mean well in fact so I actually wrote an article about this just recently I'm not like I think a month ago, um and you can see I mean, they pulled the articles if you go to SVGN.io.
02:23
Okay, um, that's a SDDNA short for so looking Valley Global News and then look at the article on top it says where web AR wearable digital fashion NFT digital shape completion, DNM animations dance assistant sensors. So that article I didn't intend to bring it up in the conversations today, but it basically talks all about how we can we are going.
02:47
We already using neural networks with VR and AR. I see. Yeah, I would check that out later.
03:05
So easier anything about a 3d construction yeah yeah. I just saw you so exactly how did you do that? I maybe I still need time to read the article but yeah, I'm not sure if you're willing to talk about do right here. Yeah, I mean, so what is your question that how did we do what?
03:24
Actually construction using do using like artificial intelligence any kind of air AI techniques. And so are you at you're asking about the the the project from from 2018 that didn't did not evolve the use of neural networks yeah, that's different. So you're doing you. Know none not in that project now.
03:56
So I I don't yet have a project that I can refer to that combined artificial intelligence with the brain computer interfaces in terms of artificial intelligence. I've used that involves using basically like body tracking and that in body tracking is is is but body tracking that's not connected to a brain computer interface technology, but body tracking in the context of AR and VR applications.
04:26
I see. It's not that it like so like eventually I'm going to connect the the brain computer interface with the body tracking with the VR in air application, that's just one more step ahead of where I'm I'm at the moment so that's it, that's a future project.
04:48
That sounds pretty interesting so yeah, I think we have to talk about the brain computer interface the last time in the journal class, maybe yeah and I think you can project that to people spring directly, right? I didn't I missed the last part of your sentence we said again.
05:12
The last time I mean, I think. Arian is that his name he he had a journal card thing on talking about the brain computer interface. I think that paper I mentioned the last time on. Andrew Jones on paper about translating people's faults into your voices into Texas and you want a project that kind of thing into people's brain directly using VR like a 3d projection.
05:52
I'm happy yeah. I'm sorry. I didn't know much about it. I'm not from I'm not remembering the exact conversations. I. Well, what was the name of the paper? Maybe I can look it up.
06:14
All right. I'm Joe Jones. Andrew Jones on loud in UCSF and they're working on the kind of career interfaces. Deadpool, it sounds the sounds familiar. I still want to see if I can find the name of the paper. So it's the kinds Twitter. Let me say we can find it over quick.
06:33
Yeah, yeah. Okay, so let me search what I'll do is I'll search for dekai and Andrew Jones at the same time.
06:45
But I think it's a special expertise. Yeah, yes, super interesting but also. Complicated for me right now.
06:58
Well, I'm congratulations. It's always the first time and and also I I don't want to dominate the whole conversation. I want to make sure that invite J. Hill and Brandon to to and everyone else in the room if you want to come up and speak you may just um indicate somehow and we'll bring in.
07:16
Yeah, so go ahead and applause myself and and while I'm searching for this paper and then yeah. Like a hero and Brendan do you guys have any huge talk about? Yeah, I was caught on my good. How you doing, right? Got a question. I'm interested in the EEG VR device and the process.
07:42
I would like to actually. Experiment with that some sensor fashion. I'm sorry, that's my daughter in the background. So yeah, I'm interested in the EEG VR but give me one second.
08:04
Yeah my gosh. I'm just happy that a hang out listening and contributing if I can if there's some I mean neurobiology kind of basic science type questions.
08:19
Awesome, very cool. I will have some some questions myself later on. I'm just I guess I guess we're just getting warmed up right now. As you can tell if my I'm my voice is vibrating a little bit because I'm a I was standing on a platform just circulating my blood to.
08:37
To wake up my brain. So, I I will have a lot more questions and a little bit.
08:51
Brave. I'm sorry. I'm driving. I can't look here your profile or anything. You work on anything neuro-related or AR-related. Are talking I ask you me.
09:10
Yes, sorry. I never done anything. I they are related so my I my studying during prestigious basically it was a technology to medical researchers and written them working on something using the voice waveform to detect practices disease. I don't think I've never read it to VR. But I'm quite interested in that and I have a question like um, maybe it's kind of stupid because I didn't know this before so um and how accurate you think is computer is this brain computer interface, um.
09:58
Has that. Could perform on based on our compared with the traditional mouse or traditional.
10:12
Basically traditional way that includes on computer so exactly how did you guys do that?
10:24
That sounds like a question for Mike I think I work mostly in animal models of various nervous system diseases, mostly. Spinal cord injury and again rodent models, so very basic science how does neuron a connector and how does a drug or therapy modify that connectivity so it may be a question or for mica okay, well would you refresh your questions or I was a little distracted right?
10:58
I just wondered. If that kind of has that using EJ computer.
11:09
What inputs what would.
11:22
Become. I say so okay, so there's that there's a. So so yeah, you cannot kit. I think at the training compare EG to a mouse is. Really a hard comparison to make it's like app it's like depending apples and oranges it's a as it so they so um trying to for example use your brain to move a cursor with the with the EG is a is really far-fetched the with it there's there's something you can look up called brain gait which which they which was electrodes implanted inside the skull above the motor cortex.
12:08
And that was one of the best ways that And one of the best demonstrations of using your brain to control a cursor on a screen. And then and then more recently we've seen as company called NearLink use another form of of surgically implanting electrodes into the brain to to also allow a monkey.
12:35
There is this video where they on those very popular YouTube just a little while ago where they showed a monkey. Controling a cursor with its brain, but but EEG is. Not quite capable of doing that very well. I mean, I guess I guess there's. I guess people are yeah.
12:59
I see so each computer is invasive. So I can basically assume that the listening-based invasive investment method like a brain gate that they could 100% reflect the people's well, but in each you may not be as accurate as the people as the those invested methods, right? So there could be some errors, but how much is that and is that already maturing enough to be bringing a market?
13:34
I'm. So I mean, I. Be brought you brought too many questions in there at the same time so I'm just like okay, let's maybe if it's um, let me let me try to answer one one one thing and I think one part of the what the answer you're looking for.
13:53
I don't think that in the short term we're gonna see EEG being rolled out as a product control of your mouse on your screen. It's just I don't think it's gonna it's likely that we're gonna get there. You know with the EG anytime soon, I maybe it's more likely that maybe in the future we'll have some sort of system that combines eye tracking with EEG or something for for user interface, but that's that that might happen.
14:21
You know, there's there's there's a Lucid VR headset which is pretty cool and that that combines eye tracking with with EEG and there's there's a there's the next mind device and I mean that the desk is not just a EG but it's not just EG by itself, so maybe that maybe that helps.
14:42
And welcome also Garrett, you may? Yeah. Hey everyone, let's I am currently an engineer previous life. I was a neuroscientist working at Stanford. I were head rotations through a pain, let me paint it anesthesia lab working in systems neuroscience, then I've worked in a essentially a reward. What was it essentially a decision-making and addiction labs really fascinating lab and then most of my time was spent in a dementia aging traumatic brain injury lab, so got a little bit experience working in a couple in both.
15:23
Medical research and in their imaging. So Ray, I'll reign live around this question each is just is I don't I of course I'm coming in the middle of this. I just got here is a few minutes ago, um EG is just is really kind of not a great one for spatial resolution, and because it gets a lot of it gets a lot of it combines a lot of signals from multiple parts of the brain.
15:55
So essentially each part of the brain sends out a different its own signal right and then the thing is is that by the time it gets to an EEG sensor is that they'll all get added together. So the thing is those that that's great if you have maybe a flat or you have fixed number of nodes in your signaling one sensor, but our brain is essentially an organ that's been curved in on itself and not to mention you have multiple.
16:30
Neurological nodes as you probably will where if different these neurological clusters that activate together. So I even then you may have certain circuits that may operate separately from those clusters, um, so you have all that going on and all that hitting AEG sensor at any given time so it's very noisy, um, at least from that perspective from if you're looking at particular sorts of circuits or processing.
17:05
Or just looking to see trying to distinguish a right hand versus left hand movement. It can be quite it can be very challenging from a signal to noise type of processing perspective, um, that's the reason why neural link and that illk are as the direct brain of brain implant brain sensor type interfaces are arguing a much better way of doing it because you're getting the contact neural potentiation.
17:40
That will be able to directly read your the type of neural patterns that are coming off of the brain and then someday of course actually respond back with meaningful patterns that the brain will be that the those iron oral clusters were able to actually understand. So in long run the neuroling type brain implants and will be.
18:08
Much more of not just more temporally and spatially more sensitive but also be aimed right away as feedback. EEG is kind of like there's not much more we can do with that unless someone comes with a breakthrough in signal processing and some very advanced mathematics that we haven't seen yet and even then I would really love to see if we can if that mathematics comes along how much processing would take to actually get that done in real time because something is straightforward as well.
18:42
I don't know. A 16 point EEG net boy. I mean that's still a lot of tater to go through when you are sampling over a 30-minute task so it's a lot of I mean that's it's just it's and you're asking computer to do that in real time to control a computer and especially to a high degree of precision so yeah, it's one of those things it's so as far as market readiness like yeah, Emmy I helping so some people might disagree.
19:18
But I I wouldn't put I if I were an investor, I wouldn't put my money on it, um, I would don't even think it's 15 years out. I think you're only consciously 15 years now but I don't think EEG is 15 years out. Now I'm done talking okay, thank you Garrett, I just make me realize this really like the outer coverage coming to life and I just noticed that illness invested in this neural and neural link project and yeah and do you guys have other things to talk about like debit do you have anything to talk about and sure enough just noticed that here?
19:59
's getting back time at the moment so a bit of background noise, so I'll just listen to the moment away from the noise. This is Sharina and I am wondering what we're talking about for oscillations and circuits. So we've just been talking about EEG and Ray's been asking what what are the current capabilities of EEG, that was the question?
20:32
And we're comparing it to narrow link it's like which one if if we're talking about go to which ones as far as go to market ready and those like well none of the yeah, so they were just in talking about that at immigration so that and spatial temporal resolutions stuff.
20:51
Hmm okay have you talked about combinations of ethners and EEG technology taken together we have not but actually that was what I was thinking about mentioning that but please please go ahead. You know, the nice thing about the combination of these two technologies, is that f mirrors it will have good.
21:16
Spatial resolution, but EEG has really good temporal resolution so taken together a person can triangulate these signals to determine or about what is going on in the brain at a good temporal spatial resolution and perhaps this can be used for various interfaces and controls of things like drones, which has been published about by some group that I don't quite remember right now.
21:47
They're more potential as well such as. Well monitoring brain signals and seeing how they may change over time in different behavioral states and characterizing okay, what is really going on the different ball under rain states as well? Welcome to.
22:16
Hey, happy Friday from Austin Texas how y'all doing?
22:24
Great how you doing? Yes super blessed. I mean, I just got it a pain to join this room and it seemed super interesting so I decided to accept thank you so much for the invitation. Right on yeah so I think of it as a popcorn style room where these these are there's a bunch of topics that I think we all like and then people can ask any question or or share any any sub topic and or anything on the top on one of these topics that they find interesting.
23:01
So we were just talking about effort ears and at the infrared. I mean infrared technology inference sensors are very mature eager is various mature you combine them together and and yeah, I actually produce arena that there are a lot of potential use cases for combining both in order to get pull out very meaningful signals from the brain not band getting idea like okay the left brain right brain or maybe just even lower cortex which is essentially let move your left as someone's visualizing.
23:36
Their left and right hand and seeing what are the app disposal about the activation substrates thereof and getting some sort of meaningful signal out of that and we're building some sort of interface out of it, there's definitely potential there.
23:55
With I wonder what is a good paper because I'm Serena mentioned like you can do triangulation between that the Fnores and the EEG. I I would like to read more about that specifically that's cool.
24:10
It's very cool.
24:14
But I'll just I'll just google stuff if anyone knows about a paper like yeah, do you have one off the top of your head?
24:34
One in front of yours it neurobiotics hybrid. EEG nearest based eight commands decoding for brain, computer interface application and quadcopter control. And so they they're able to use both of these signals to control a quadcopter and the fact that there is both EEG and F nears it allows for more different kinds of commands that can be sent to the quadcopter.
25:07
This is very nice because okay if a person can control a quadcopter with their brain then what does this mean for the future of prosthetics can prosthetics be made less invasive but more accurate that would be really a wonderful thing if less brain surgery was needed in order for a thing to to be moved in ways that people want.
25:31
And I know that Adam ascarian and Robin Saltzinoda. I believe that's how to pronounce his name. Yeah, they are trying to create rain poles, which is a company that combines ethners and EEG is together. There are a few other companies that do this as well including. What is it called?
25:56
Aparna. Colonel. Bite be doing it. I don't know if they are for sure. Oh, yes, Neural Electrics. They have a system that combines a fears EEG and also some customs stimulation protocols. Oh, very cool. I think I didn't even know about these companies, thank you.
26:26
I mean, I think I've heard a brain pulls before but but but I'm just want to particular narrow electrics. I hadn't heard this one so very very thankful. Yeah, Naru Electrics has been around for a while and they have some pretty good stuff. As for rainbows, they are still forming their team and trying to have a great neuroscientist and a great engineer, I believe.
26:48
As they develop their technology, but what they have so far is something that can. That can monitor ethners and EEG at the same time, but this is for the frontal lobe. As for neural electrics there their system it goes all over the head. So it gets other lobes besides the frontal lobe as well.
27:28
I've just I've while the while I was muted I was also I'm also like looking up kernel to see if I can if I can see if I can confirm real quick just on the internet if if it does say that the specifically combined EEG with with Finish I thought I thought they they were but maybe I need to confirm that hang on.
27:48
But anyway, so welcome everyone if you have any interests on any of these topics questions or things you've exciting things you've heard recently. Phil welcome to speak up popcorn style.
28:08
So something about Colonel, I mean, I've actually heard that they're more secretive than neural link in regards to what their what their development path or what their technologies they're using for bringing computer interface, so I those are people that have been who have interviewed for them so I I mean if you find something do let us know do let me know if you really interested as well, but I would but I would also be very surprised to dig up anything on the internet because they're more type lip than your link.
28:42
Well that I mean at some point both companies were really like you could only find like a basic page with no information on them but but both companies have come out with lots of announcements like I'm looking at lots of stuff right now yeah but the only thing I would say about neural interest that they were more clear about our direct brain like, Brain implant white implantation type interface because of the people they were hiring the people who had joined them in the last several years were definitely like tissue um, like material specialists and some other very very specialized people who had done biomedical circuitry type of stuff before.
29:29
Um, that's the reason why I had point that out it's nothing usually would never have to do that unless you like went into he had some really cute weird interests and cybernetics, um, so if and or you would want to do something what's called deep brain stimulation like put electric probes and elect an electrically stimulated parts of the brain and actually made biomedical implants out of that so it's a very it's a such a highly specialized area that you know, it's it's, The type of people that join them and hire them are just you know who they are in the within the field we're not I wouldn't say anybody knows of the high run, but they just they make it's it's notable when they get actually get hired and they continue doing work.
30:16
Oh I found I think I found it so um, there's a there's um, it's it's it's it's called the title is Colonel. Flow a high channel count scalable TD - F nearest system and it says kernel flow is a TD NIRS system has been designed but it includes an eight channel electroencephalography, so it includes the EG.
30:44
And. Yeah, but whether they're using that or not. I'm not sure. I would think so.
30:55
There's also the question of.
31:01
That Colonel has a collaboration with Simon which gets me wondering okay given that psychedelics, they largely operate on cortical neurons. By the five HT2A receptor this allows us to well it would allow them to monitor cortical activity with these technologies and to determine maybe more themes about how the brain operates under different psychedelic states or different doses of psychedelics, which is an emerging field of research despite psychedelics having been around for a while thanks to regulations and changes over time.
31:50
Go ahead. I'm sorry. I'm you. Okay, so as soon as that's about and I just wondered I'm just anything that this I have anything related to some psychological treatments like depression and you guys know anything about that. I'm sorry can can you repeat the question whether regards to treatment of depression?
32:16
So showing us I just mentioned that the application of such instrument could be used for a monitoring effect psychedelic states. So I just wondered does anything already gone through FDA's approvements where that's such as the treatment for depression or so. Okay, yeah, there is one. It's called transcranial magnetic stimulation.
32:47
It's used for the treatment of severe and persistent depressed major depressive disorder on that is approved for under the FDA that and that is the one I know of that has been cleared for use essentially it using it stimulating areas like the dorsal prefrontal cortex and can remember what else it's been on since I've done but did the protocols um as she reada?
33:17
Do you remember the protocols for that one? Oh not through this one. I was going to answer a raise question about solos. I've been for FDA approval yes, it's been approved and yes there have been clinical trials from various places including Johns Hopkins about this for depression. Awesome. That's excellent.
33:42
I really cool. So yeah TMS so that that's two ways of the going about it, so they are using magnetic coils to stimulate parts of the brain and they're using psychedelics psilocybin in order to see if it helps people with depression. But as range you might well know there are capable different types of depression comes in different types of forms and of course it comes along with the bipolar variety as well.
34:06
So it it's not put these treatments aren't cleared for every version or every type of depression. So that's that that's the that the boilerplate. You. Caveat. But if you do wonder how how psychedelics differ from traditional. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors that are often used for a depression treatment, well, they operate on different parts of the brain whereas selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, they tend to be closer to the midbrain in terms of where they are activating.
34:51
But psychedelics they operate more on the cortex because of the certain receptors that exist there, so there are two different kinds of treatments that work on different areas of the brain and so they will function somewhat differently one thing that is notable about psychedelics is that they take a lot less time to become effective so a small dose of a psychedelic may.
35:20
Lead to a. Person being very well treated very quickly, whereas selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, they take a while for them to. That's why. Those I've been is considered a breakthrough to therapy according to the FDA for severe depression. I should have put interested in that. I know that. I basically is the.
35:49
My treatment right now and maybe psychedelic is when there were undergraduate. I think they told me that it's not the first choice but yeah it's for some occasions but I'm more interested in this kind of has that really helps the governor of cognitive behavior our treatments like CBT so I think at the personal I think CBT is the most effective for for depression treatment, so do you guys have any ideas about that except personally?
36:24
Have gone through CBT and I think is pretty successful treatment compared to any drugs so you're are you I'm I guess I don't understand the question of being comparing CBT to medications in general, are you comparing therapy to CBT among therapies? I mean, I mean the brain the brain computer interfaces.
36:52
I just wonder if this will help CPT because I know that for depression treatments for some. Simple task the the handsome can help monitor if the drug has come successfully for the brain in some controlling depression state by CBT. I think it's something can solve from the roots, but civic is also very very expensive and also in it's a long run for treatment, right?
37:19
Actually there have been some studies TMS because transcription may need stems been around for a while. There have been studies that have done the CBT and TMS treatment together and have shown a beneficial effect using both. So there has been that Salas I have been I will have to defer to Serena if they've started doing trials of Silas I have been with a traditional CBT therapy.
37:46
So Serena if you could if you have a thought let me know. My thought about this is that I don't know. The the study is that aren't being done nowadays that the good thing about them is that they're very very very controlled by that. I mean that usually what happens is that a person goes over to John Hop Johns Hopkins or Imperial College London or another place where they have a a center that is devoted to the study of of psychedelic medicine and or consciousness and the the person they have to go into a room and do undergo a very certain protocol where they are asked to.
38:30
Do usually reflect in words. So focusing their attention in words usually with something to cover their eyes. On some sort of. Or something like that as they are given a. A psychedelic or a placebo and so there are these randomized control trials. I do not know whether this has ever been done in conjunction with CBT as well, but that is what I know is being done.
39:06
Um, so I guess I'm not just kind of this kind of made this is a little bit so I don't this is an area that I don't know very much about but um, I wonder why so I guess I guess the main reason that SSRIs are treating the brain differently from LSD DMT and and Silas Ibn is because of the receptors that they tend to target like the the psychoactives are targeting the the five ht2a receptor and then SSRIs are our targeting some other receptors is that is that how it works.
39:39
Yes, exactly the SSRIs are essentially our slowing down our or inhibiting the reuptake of serotonin which is one of their transmitters that's thought to play in the role of mood so it's a very you're right it's a very different receptor different neurochemicals different pathways, but one thing about all this should be said about any drug pharmaculture pharmacological or any drug is that when it affects the brain affects the whole brain and even though, Certain pathways in the brain like like whether for hallucinor experiences or depression they seem to be focused or only on certain network uncertain pathways.
40:25
So it does anyway, so the main thing is that yes it does affect that they do affect different circuits different receptors in the whole brain that but in the whole brain not in different dotted not as specific region. Is that so I mean, I guess there's like 14 different serotonin receptors but yeah or more but is it like so so is an SRI like so DMT and in the psychoactives these are like was it called agonist serotonin agonists receptor agonists and but but so is SSRI but it's just right there is exercise also agonists for serotonin no no no necessaries are different they are what soul it the rehab taking hibitors, so.
41:14
Well they work by slow so what happens was s was serotonin once a tree least from the nerve it from the nerve from the cell is that they're usually once it's blast on the receptor and then it's what and then it's in back in the synapse or the synaptic gap it is reuptake and reabsorbed now what the real taken inhibitor does is that it slows it down or it prevents a removing reabsorbed, so there's more inside this inside the synaptic gap and Serena course can correct me if I'm wrong when the terminal, Because I'm a little tired tonight but essentially it is but by having more serotonin in the in that so by slowing down on the reuptake it and there's more serotonin present in there versus the agonists effectively increase the amount of serotonin that's produced that is released by the nerve cells and period and it would not slow down the amount that's reuptaked by either cell.
42:21
By the respect by the releasing or the receiving cell, okay, so my follow-up question is so what is so what I heard is that is that the in the case of DMT or basically serotonin agonists receptor agonists that that the the effect on your oscillation is this is gonna be is probably gonna be like either like it's the excitement of of oscillations or or maybe perhaps the increase in in hit in it in a inhibitions if yeah and end up but it's so by contrast.
42:56
What does the effect of the SSRIs are we in general are we talking about more excitement and part of the brain or more or slow down to the oscillations of the brain?
43:13
That's a good question. I'm sure there's actually some very deep neuroc. Ytic, um, I'll speak only the SSRIs because I've done more research on that is that the general thinking is that it increases if you think of that there's a potentiation threshold for a nerve to fire as to reach so in order to reset you have to have a buildup of neural transmitters to get to that level so by introducing the reuptake inhibitor, let's say you get 50% up weight halfway up because the serotonin just doesn't have anywhere to go it doesn't get reupted just sitting around.
43:50
So then the other sending cells to has to send 50% of what it normally does to hit the potent hit that threshold mark. And then once it duct when the threshold mark done hits then the potentiation fuck and goes off and it fires. So I would put I would so the theory is is that the oscillation wave would look more would look how we should say the periods would look more frequent.
44:17
You might say, um, wait depending between spikes. So we're seeing a slowdown. No, no curious with the poor frequently always have a shorter period.
44:31
And I can talk about this psychedelic side, which is that it said that it that psychedelics they increase cortical entropy. So they increase activity in the cortex and that is how things like hallucinations can come up though a person can also like rodose and have not a hallucination. There are some scientists who are trying to work on creating so-called non hallucinogenic psychedelics such as.
45:05
I've tried to remember this person's name.
45:14
Oh, yes, Brian. Roth, yep. He has a grant to work on that. The thing about about creating synthetic biology books creating synthetic molecules for things such as psychedelics is that. There is it's a real question of receptor and agonist fit and getting the molecules to fit exactly right if possible and trying to get them to be as specific to the receptor that we want to activate as possible.
45:54
So when it comes to psychedelics a lot of them, they don't just activate a five h two to a receptor, they're also sticking to other receptors and opening up channels. That lay as well. For example, some dopamine receptors may be activated. So, So they are not exactly perfect but the biggest effect comes from the activation of five ht to a receptor.
46:25
This is Sharina and I am done talking. I think by the way thank you so much for that I wanted to bounce back together for a second. If you so if what you're describing about the 50 like the 50% it may take I guess you were saying like an order for one neuron to get another neuron to fire it would have to send 50% more signal.
46:47
Was that was that what you're saying, like it would have to work harder. So let's go back to basic all let's go back to example. So in a normal situation it, it's at zero, right? There's nothing in the synapse themselves as a gap, right? There's nothing in there. So the first cell, The really.
47:04
You can still ask to send a bunch of serotonin to get from zero to 100 and once at 100 in the other cell says, okay, I've got enough serotonin I drink I reach my threshold I'm gonna fire off so with the real so that's that's you know, that's like everyday work that's let's say that's the everyday brain now the everyday brain has taken SSRI the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, so the reuptake inhibitor prevents the serotonin from actually being reabsorbed and or and what so it's sticks around for a lot longer.
47:39
So instead of starting from zero we start at let that for my example was fifty percent the actual percentage isn't how much serotonin is actually gonna be in there will vary depending on you know, it's gonna vary on a lot of factors like you mentioned there are multiple types of serotonin it's gonna depend on how many you know it how many synaptic connections there are there's a bunch of like there's lots of dynamics that are involved but I'm just simplifying say okay, we're at 50% because of how much serotonin is there already.
48:13
So that 50% then is like 50% less actually to actually get to the threshold mark for the second nerve cells say okay, I've got enough to fire um, yeah anyway, there's been a lot of and and people have done focused on I'm the system side so I look at more like nerve clusters and looking and how whole brain regions respond to this there are I would say X colleagues now.
48:39
I haven't talked to them in a while who actually like pull out or look at particular brains circuits, and then bathe them in. Baby them informer and pharmacological in different drugs and actually measure their neuro what they call neuropotentiation which essentially electrical signals and see how they respond so and that's there are definitely changes like I described not to like 50% and then we get to another 50% you get a nerve firing but there are different changes within your oscillation patterns and happen with the fire rings and of course, they do all sorts of you know different studies with that so I now I totally understand why the neurons might fire faster but I'm also interested in what's happening to the electrical gradient.
49:23
Well they're chemicals because it's a because of the neuro chemical process right if not the synaptic gap electricity can't pass that gap it has to be between the neurons it has to come the only way from the neurons to talk to each other is sending chemicals at each other so in what happens is that in order for the chemicals not build up they have to be reuptake by either it's by the rescinding cell or the receiving cell.
49:53
I'm gonna pause there for a second to think about it yeah, so I didn't know so I I didn't know that they had to be so I mean, I guess I think I guess the concept of reuptake is pretty straightforward but um, but but I. But they also like I'm like, I'm just like wondering what okay so either the reacted has to be done by the receiving cell or the ascending cell but where is it where is it going exactly if it's the receiving cell because the receiving cell receives it and then it brings it in where like it just absorbs through the membrane or something.
50:21
I'm yes, oh, And then um, so well, okay so if you so if it does a lot of specific mechanisms for that so but yes, it's actually just so long to go in and then it gets reabsorbed by the cellular machinery gets reprocessed, so if you're I mean, I think of it as like you're clogging up the receptor so stuff gets stuck in there.
50:43
Yeah exactly. I mean what happened what we're doing is that we're partially clogging up the receptor and that's why taking too much SSR I can lead to problems yeah so yeah, but that but that also is gonna affect the the the great the electrical gradient of the cell because it so does the SSRI have a positive or negative charge.
51:09
It doesn't so the positive negative charge has to do with the ions that are across the or across the cell, so the interesting thing about the cellular chemistry is that you have it's splits the sodium up so the salt ion so it kind of started I can't this is going way back to my neuro chemistry, but essentially it's splits a salt molecule the positive ion and negative ion across the membrane and then when it wants to fire these channels open and these ions are allowed to mix.
51:44
And of course, you know from basic chemistry that electrical because of the ions are now allowed to interact specific channel is that we will have a electrical current that will pass a longer membrane and of course this current has been all along the membrane all along the body of the cell is this is the salt that salt solution that crosses that lines of the entire body of the cell and this will essentially would have depolarized and electrical signal of what the electrochemical signal will pass one.
52:19
On it into a reaches the other end.
52:25
Before I read away, I'm going to say that neurons are like salty bananas. I mean, it's a good one yeah, they they have a lot of sodium on the outside and they have a lot of potassium on the inside, so when a channel opens up then you know, what's going to happen maybe the the sodium from the outside is going to flow to the inside and that is what allows for the polarization that eventually can lead to an action potential this is sure you know, and it's time to run away and maybe even eat a banana.
53:00
So I died thank you. Later Serena good to you.
53:10
Um way cool, so yeah, it's your question the serotonin your transmitters both the I mean both psychedelics and I mean the SSRIs which are not actually sorry we're not neurotransmitters themselves, they just not the quote unquote modulate snare neurotransmitters, they're actually don't have any polarity to them themselves, it's but the neurotransmitters they trick they kick off.
53:36
This this polarity response by triggering these channels to open and causes this depolarity to happen and this to let it kicks off this electrical chemical pulse to travel along the cell body okay, um, maybe we can go a little bit more a little bit more deeper into it like I'm in terms of like, I don't know if people want to I maybe I'll reset the remote quick and just open it up so so this room there's a lot of topics listed nerve physics.
54:11
Bringing waves oscillations neural circuits nerve gear that's brain computer interface is an AI these are all the cool topics and there's a lot of different ways to as a whole like a whole bunch of different conversations that can happen around these topics and how they could all connect to one another so anyone has the question anyone can bring up anything that they're interested in anything that they've read recently and and in science news that's related to these topics.
54:37
And that's go ahead.
54:43
Yeah, absolutely thank you, you know so much and these are definitely fascinating topics. I mean, you know as as a you know, human evolutionist I guess if you will futurist, you know, just that just this this notion of augmented, you know humans I guess first is you know, the postulation of you know, artificial intelligence.
55:12
I guess, you know, there's a lot of really smart people in the room. I'm just curious to quote, you know to pose the question. You know, how do we you know, what what are some short-term ways that we execute on you know, augmented, you know, humans and enhance humans from a neuroscience perspective.
55:41
Joshua by. Thoughts always go towards, how do we? Either prevent or cure disease or pathology, right so how can we augment the nervous system in ways that let's say after a concussion or after a traumatic brain injury or after a spinal cord injury how can we provide either therapeutics or maybe stem cells or types of rehabilitation therapy to?
56:14
I will say to harness the the plasticity of the nervous system or the ability of the nervous system to change to restore some function, whatever that function may be that maybe ball and bladder function that may be locomotive function that may be fine motor movements so that somebody can grab a glass again, but figuring out.
56:37
I think going deep enough into the science to figure out the molecular mechanisms to augment that to begin to restore function as the ultimate in my head and through my training as the it's kind of the ultimate end goal of how can I restore function from a professor in disease or pathology, so that somebody can live in more quote-unquote normal life.
57:04
Giving us a little more thought. I'm kind of whipped right in here yeah but both taking on a different set of problems are in I one of the biggest challenges I see is actually aging especially that's why I spent most of the time my time in a dementia. Alzheimer's lab.
57:20
I'm traumatic brain injury lab is that as we age is that we accumulate a lot of I mean a lot not just health problems, but mental-ish mental health problems that will degrade our cognitive abilities over time. A lot of it's not understood yet and we're still trying to understand a lot of the molecular aspects of it but a lot we do understand and a lot of it has a lot of ways to prevent that or to mitigate it balls over everything we've heard about for elastical decade or just eating healthier exercising being more engaged learning etc, etc, the only problem is is that we don't see any of the incentives in society actually playing out any meaningful way and yeah, there's a lot that's not being there's not going on there's a lot that's not that's happening there because there.
58:14
's there's more happening especially from social neuroscience that plays that our brains are actually highly responsive and actually builds new connections and even build new brain cells depending on who the interact with and especially and there's more just general social psychology like and long longitudinal studies like the non-famous nun study that but at that followed several nuns for deck not someone that's a whole convent of guns for decades and tracked their cognitive decline in those who developed dementia those who.
58:49
Developed Alzheimer's and see what type of behaviors and what type of social networks they developed and of course one of the things they found was that the nuns who have wider social networks essentially had like big had a bigger like bigger number of friends, um, and who were able to write more of verbosely and were more descriptive with their wording and other communication had less cognitive client or at less at risk of cognitive decline.
59:24
And those who had fewer friends and were not as up to talking or actually being descriptive with their speech or were not as proficient in their speech. So there's a lot in there that can be derived and how they actually live our own lives going from the future without having all the really nice medical pharmacological biochemical data or hands yet which still hasn't panned out for the most part but we know a lot but we don't know enough to start messing around with their own brains at least with the confidence.
59:59
So that's what I that's what I take it is that there's a lot of lifestyle changes they can be taken up. Now, of course, I just want to get caveat for anyone who's an introverted room, no you do not need to be making a large number of friends just take it a you know, get a good intellectual interest in something you should be fine.
01:00:16
There was a one thing that you see the outway in the nun study was taking a keen intellectual interest and those nuns did pretty well to so that you don't have to have a nice number of friends offset cognitive decline.
01:00:34
Yeah, go ahead Jay Hill and I'm like, Yeah, I just wanted to do well thanks again Michael for for hosting the room and gear this is the second time I've been in a room with you. It's great that you mentioned a few things that I've been interested in kind of understanding of it's more and this is why myself.
01:00:56
I've yet to speak with a specialist so this is my first time openly talking about it, right? So my guy asked you about the EEG VR headsets because I'm interested in actually. Seeing how my brain is firing and looking for a solutions, right? So I have noticed recently that I'm struggling with more of my memory loss or just retaining certain things a short-term and or even long-term and.
01:01:35
Yeah, I'm interested. I I know that. When I do say, Smoke for example or intake I don't believe it's a strand it is a. I'm drawing a blank right now. Are you gonna say something like sativa or indica? Thank you. There you go. Thank you, Michael. It was I believe it's a sativa and I noticed that my brain's functions quite differently and.
01:02:11
I experienced a bit more empathy right and and understanding I used kind of see myself in a completely different light right and I just interested in seeing what steps that should be taken to I guess understand that a bit more and it's not just that it's it's I I self-diagnosed with ADHD right so I've just kind of.
01:02:36
Notice that there are some similarities with you know, some of the people that have described their symptoms and some things coming for late, so yeah, I'm just really interested in this is what I love these rooms to just kind of hear, you know specialists just under explain, you know, their journeys of you know, some of the I guess cases that they've gone through of the of the years and yeah, I'm just kind of like a fly on the wall, but I'm interested in hearing I guess more feet.
01:03:07

01:03:31
I don't have anything at the top of my head for the ADHD or the memory stuff. I mean if it's a major concern I always say consulting medical professional and I never just say never settle for what one I mean, this standard level psychiatrists and the license clinical social workers, they they're they're they're good at what they do, but what they do is they help people who are in immediate distress of suicide anxiety, you know, both the a lot of mood a lot of personality.
01:04:04
Disorders the type of stuff that we especially for attention deficit and memory issues starts getting more unfortunately gets more specialized people who are in like the cognitive what are our neuropsychologists the people who are cognitive rehabilitationists those type of people those type of specialists, okay, so if you do decide to go down that route, it's it is a bit of a journey but it's well worth.
01:04:31
It so proofread your PM me, if you want to reach out to some suggestions of titles of people who are clinicians would be qualified to take a look into it and that's yeah and and hoping yeah that's hoping to get the answers that you're looking for. Thank you Gary yeah definitely will PM you guys have a few more questions.
01:04:56
I like to ask and I know it's not medical advice. I'll talk a lot about crypto so you know, we could the disclaimer this is not financial advice so I completely understand myself but yeah, definitely appreciate you sharing, you know, your perspective and yeah greater appreciate it. I saw you on Mike Joshua did you on our?
01:05:20
Did anyone else want to respond to that? Yeah, absolutely thank you so much for that and I think wow what a great conversation once again and and for me, this is this is absolutely I love the you know, the corrective and you know, I guess therapeutic, you know, rehabilitative.
01:05:41
You know aspects of the conversation and and for sure. I mean, I'm getting older I'm gonna be 40, you know this year and I noticed that right and I'm not necessarily, you know, a low performing person however I do start to notice like the the effects of just like the wear and tear of living and active lifestyle and just going out like as an entrepreneur as a businessman, um, just having dinners and and and just that whole you know, and so you know for sure I mean, I definitely.
01:06:16
Appreciate what Garrett was saying just like you know just by tightening up your your lifestyle and and pain attention to you know, yourself care and your diet and meditation like I definitely can I see that but I'm also super curious about just really understanding the deeper aspects of the science, you know, when it comes to just you know, and I know Gary you kind of talked about this a little bit with you know, like what he wants doing with an early link and you know, what other you know, researchers and and entrepreneurs are doing in this whole space of Like augmented humans and and like, you know what I really just call like it all falls under this category of like human optimization and you know, this is always been something I'm fascinated about um, and at different areas of my you know, my journey as a human and as I guess as an entrepreneur engineer, etc, like I've you know been, you know deeper down there the rabbit hole than other times, you know, and so when I see like this this topic in a room like this, you know, kind of pop up like it just like, It brings it like back to the front.
01:07:28
I'm just like what can we do right because you know, I I I want I want people who need rehabilitation, you know to have that rehabilitation but just from a like a human optimization and like a human trend transcendence perspective. I guess. I'm just curious like, You know, what can we do to optimize ourselves to maybe you know.
01:07:55
Unlock a greater, you know, you know percentage of our capacity to just like understand compute just you know, we know these you know, we throw around these these loose terms that we're only using you know, like a very small percentage of our cognitive abilities. So you know, what innovative, you know research or what new things if any, you know is anybody in this room coming across that's like, you know moving us in the direction of you know, unlocking a greater percentage of our ability to use our inherent, you know neuro capabilities and then you know, not just with what's going on with their link, but what other scientists and researchers, you know doing in the in the field that are gonna give us a greater ability to I guess.
01:08:46
For like a better words to transcend our current state. So there is biller definitely two different things because there are. I mean there is cognitive enhancement like cognitive augmentation and then there's cognitive rehabilitation and you would think they would be on the same they would be the same thing, but in in the scientific field, they are definitely different.
01:09:12
So I guess we could take it either direction. I just the question is is that which one do people want to take it in? I mean, you've already mentioned yourself Joshua that you're also experiencing a little bit of a slowdown with age. That could be the immediate thing, but of course, it's always fun to talk about.
01:09:30
Stuff that we could do in the future. So, I'll leave a name about I think I could talk about either one. This is my this is my chill time for me. So what does everyone want? So I'll leave it everyone to decide.
01:09:46
Oh Josh before you maybe clarify about who want to get into that notion of that we only use let's say I don't know whatever percentage you want to throw on there 15% of our brain. It's I don't know where that's come from. I've heard that a few times but I don't that doesn't really hold any weight or water here right if you it's not like it parts of your brain or just inactive.
01:10:12
So don't know where that comes from and when you think blood flow to the brain right so you got to provide oxygen for. Potentially for nervous tissue to be active because it's primarily. Oxidative driven, so it has to produce energy using oxygen. And it's really just a shift in the blood flow in the brain to provide oxygen to areas that are active.
01:10:37
So all areas are constantly active for some ramp up some quiet down but it's not that again, we only use a certain percentage of our brains just shifting which percentage of your brain or sub-core infrastructures that we're using depending on the tasks.
01:11:05
I'm Dr. G, are you ready to respond to that? I could add some things to but um, I guess you you're gonna make a selection about which way you want to get to go.
01:11:15
So you want you to go first please please go ahead and add to that. Okay, so I just wanted to say that there was a paper there's been some studies on creatine and the brain and I have a friend one of my nurse scientists friends insist that creatine is the only thing that's been proven to actually improve your memory.
01:11:35
I'm a fan of of there's there's something called the ribose. Which is a supplement that that affects your body and a similar but slightly different way than then how creatine effects I don't think has been shown that it improves your memory, but but um. But of creatine doesn't I don't know maybe it does too.
01:11:57
There's there's something yeah, that's a big scratch right? There's um, I like new tropics within a new topics. There's I don't think there's any proof yet that they actually improve your memory, but like I take I take you know, I take a so you know, like I'll take choline or.
01:12:17
I'll take a new pet. I think when I'm taking right now is. Gosh like yeah, how could have my memory if I can't remember the names of my new tropics? Now so about yeah, if I forget to take the the choline then they don't work so that they definitely like, you know, like the the oxy-based ham or the the oh yeah, so there's one called faster race tan or colorist and different names.
01:12:43
But you can look up the topic of neutropics. And so some people with who have ADHD, they have MRIs again, they have like less blood flow. In the in the frontal parietal lobes, for example I and like it's like I think Jay held mentioned ADHD. I should definitely like to some good books on AST that that you might want to read but but also I get your diagnosis validated because there's two there's too many like there's many things that can appear to be ADHD or ADD that.
01:13:17
And as many different I guess as many different versions of it so you might want to get your diagnosis validated and and also the possible treatments like you can you can it's possible if you're doing if you're trying to solve treatment and you're trying to do self treatment like you can really mess it up taking too much or too little of whatever you're doing maybe completely ineffective and without a doctor's guidance.
01:13:38
It's easy to get lost. So stop treatment is not that's super helpful. And like I I my my first impulse is to like start to ask me Jay, for example, like what what is the, What do you think the cannabis might be doing to your memory In terms of how you feel but I don't I don't actually want to jade and to answer that because it's a group setting and we don't really want to get into diagnosing a person in a group setting or diagnosing person at all but but the idea here is that maybe maybe in some cases, you know, smoking in general not cannabis specifically with smoking genital can create inflammation and that can that can impair memory and if there's a lot of smoking happening then memory could get worse in in a person might not connect it to the smoking but because it may be happening like, Basically in terms of like you what's happening in the month overall, right?
01:14:31
Not not at me the facts might not be immediate but that could be a contributor and there's a lot of like, you know, trying to diagnose psychiatric issues while someone is is taking substances. I mean, like everything is everything you eat as a substance, right? But you just you it's hard to get an accurate diagnosis, you're not accounting for for things that might be causing inflammation or other weird things that could be affecting your memory.
01:14:57
Um, and so going back to so neutropics creatine. I had this vibration platform that very rates it like forty hurts um and it's a linear it's like a linear vibration platform it's not the one that wobbles it just goes like straight up and down it doesn't well like wobble up and right and I think it's it's a it my hope that it's it's a maybe helping um with with blood flow in the in the brain if I if my if my blood flow was not like in the you know, like an example of the ADH ADD.
01:15:31
Patient if they're blood flow is not it's not it's not really good around the whole brain and then maybe some some. Some therapy would help I don't know but that's just you know, it's this is not real medicine what I'm doing I and it's just I'm just trying something so um.
01:15:50
I should probably should pause there.
01:15:57
So Joshua which way do you want to take you want to do brain and can't cognitive enhancement or card you rehabilitation talk about in the course general topics and talk about what's what's in the field.
01:16:12
Yeah absolutely mica. Garrett, thank you so much for that and and branding as well. I mean, it's really about enhancements, right? I mean, and I've only got a really a few minutes left, you know for tonight, but I'm just excited. Okay well life is actually with that oh well, I was want to say I thought you had stopped to it, you're welcome.
01:16:37
I'm sorry, go ahead. Oh I apologize on yeah so no I just want to say like I I think I'm excited about the possibilities of you know, enhanced humans and I think that there needs to be a greater level of attention that is focused in that direction because around you know, this whole this whole sphere that I play very heavily in but you know, the the fourth industrial revolution as it were.
01:17:08
I mean robotics AI machine learning, you know, we talk about these things. Extensively and you know and even you know at all all levels like what they can do for us or fears as you know, as it pertains to that but I think that there's a lot that is it's this this this minor portion of the conversation that I think that there needs to be a greater emphasis on and that is what if we're just optimizing ourselves and for sure that all you know, a significant port, you know percentage of that just goes into basic self-care and there's a lot of that that's being discussed right and then going into the new tropics and going.
01:17:48
Into you know, some of these other supplementations increasing blood flow oxygen, you know oxidant arx and i jason, you know, i think these are the basics but i'm just excited about the possibility of us just. You know, I guess just getting better as humans and and maybe just you know further exploring that and then you know, maybe you know, um in a related, you know, contacts off offloading, you know things that we deem to be at that point more menial to like robotics and AI to to kind of handle things and it's it's an interesting paradox because so much of the conversation around, you know, techno ethics and AI is like, oh my goodness, we're taking away these menial jobs from human beings and I said well, Shouldn't we just be more focused on getting better as humans right and letting you know robots and AI just kind of do things that you know, we.
01:18:50
We should at that point just not even really care about doing and it's such an interesting thing it's like someone's like we don't want to evolve but I feel like we should be evolving and that's you know, why I'm excited about and and they're a part of that too is like and you know again like about which way do I want to take the conversation it's just for me, it's all related, you know, because nobody wants to see somebody who's not doing well right from a mental health perspective or just from a You know, just from a somebody who's gone through like had a TV I or you know, and I'm I'm a veteran.
01:19:27
I you know have seen you know, just you know, the the impacts of trauma in in that and that field but also traumas a very real thing just for humans in general, you know, and so for sure just how do we you know address the rehability of nature of things and then just the natural course of aging.
01:19:50
But also you know I guess how do we just get better as humans in general and be comfortable with that evolution and actually more so than just being comfortable about it get excited about it and then you know, I just again, you know, but I'm a huge human evolutionist, you know, and a lot of the conversations around what I do with digital transformation and you know next generation technologies there's so much fear around okay, well where's the human in this and I think that this is absolutely the answer the human the human evolves because we figure.
01:20:25
Out how to you know how to do so in a healthy way and you know, I guess those are just just some thoughts but again, thank you guys so much for for this room, it's a great conversation.
01:20:43
Actually welcome. Hey, thank you for your service to by the way, we're really appreciate what everything we don't put this country. Yeah thank you thank you Josh right I'm Gary you have the floor if you want to respond to anything you want to see what real quick yeah absolutely my pleasure and thank you for staying at I'm gonna listen in for a little bit but probably within that few minutes.
01:21:04
I'm just gonna peace out. I don't want to be rude but I just you know again want to say thank you so much. I'm gonna listen for a little bit longer and then I'm just gonna kind of peace out so that I don't disrupt the flow of the room, okay, well I'll talk a little about some of the human augmentation technologies.
01:21:18
I've been reading or the cognitive augmentation technologies. I've been reading up on there been there's a lot of interesting stuff in the field and this goes. Beyond. On your tropics, so this is beyond using supplements and nutrition to augment ones. I'll bring performance. Now, I will there's a big part of the plate warning.
01:21:38
I'll see this again, you'll see at the end is that these technologies and scientific studies are still in the experimental stage, they're still being researched. There are still a lot unknown about the ad if there are any adverse effects and what would be any long-term side effects of use of these technologies.
01:22:00
So take that with the grain of salt and That's it talk about it. So one of the I mentioned is actually was used of were depression. I mentioned earlier in this room was transcranial definition. And one it is a technology that uses alternating magnetic fields in order to stimulate or inhibit parts of the brain.
01:22:20
Now the interesting thing with this one is that you can actually stimulate certain regions of the brain like dorsal prefrontal cortex in order to improve food. Stimulate areas like the frontal cortex or the prefrontal cortex in order to hypers stimulate it in more to perform better. Your is however because the technologies have been around for a while, it's a it's pretty well understood that it is a short acting effect at least for people who do not have an active deficit.
01:22:53
There's still research on people who have had like brain injury dementia et cetera. They may actually go longer receive a longer term benefit before normal people there seems to be some sort of significant drop off and Non-long-lasting effect. Therefore a short period of time they can get by having this magnetic stimulation to the areas can get a boost to whatever function that they receive in here areas.
01:23:21
Now, of course, it is called without warrant the course. I need it. It goes without saying that these focalized stimulations of the brain regions are very focalized that they're only like if you're only doing door slower prefrontal cortex that may be only moved or you're doing unlike if you're doing.
01:23:42
Language area like brokers area then it's only language production, you won't actually help you with language recognition if that's specific on the bubbles stimulation. So that's something to bear line with this type of with TMS. So one of the parts so people are looking more the rehabilitation technology than as an enhancement technology, but the possibility exists so maybe someone will find a pattern or to find a brain area that's a little bit more longer lasting or receipt the address or some long bet lasting benefit and I'll call that direction.
01:24:17
In our interesting one is transcranial direct current stimulation. This one has been also around for a while but it's been gaining interest in the last 20 years. So this one is applying a very small select the five volt one amp or five volt essentially five volt two amp charge directly to the scalp.
01:24:37
Essentially, it is people really don't feel it just so get clear this is not a painful actually painful. It's a very low powered essentially electrical current that's applied to the head and it's essentially prior to the Fourth. Are the head and then the positive terminal or the pressure yet positive is from the back negative zoom positive in the front making them back and the big and people have reported generally enhanced cognitive improvement for several hours afterward also when they are after an electrical stimulation of this they have reported that they can they have better memorization and remember better learning of the material they learn during stimulation period.
01:25:25
This one has been bolt is both under investigation for enhancement and rehabilitation, um, so this one has been very has been looking very promising if there's any dip and also what type of protocols should be used under specific and what type of cognitive benefits of help besides memory does it help with sleep does it get there's some evidence for that does it help with learning languages there's some evidence for that is to help with learning doing math some evidence not a lot but some and the effect is not that great but there's definitely more with memory, so.
01:26:00
Well it is an interesting one there seems to be definitely benefits downsides, there is not been any long-term studies to know what happens if you keep on zapping yourself able to say that could be bad there is a lot of there is a lot of conjecture that the brain could build up resistance just like it builds up resistance and drugs that you may require larger and larger electrical stimulation in order to get the same effect and last thing we want is people start electrically stimulating themselves to death in order to get a bigger.
01:26:35
Cognitive boost so long-term effects are unknown the other thing too is that they have when is the reason why this technology was initially not produced or not pursued as a research topic was that after this period or after the initial boost there would be a depression period so after a few hours you people get a boost of learning or performing higher they would then perform below normal for a period of time.
01:27:04
And then they would come back to normal so the concern was that okay how long does this depression period last and does it affect other skills and does a person end is there some for a long-term damage that might persist later on so far, it doesn't seem to be the case but everyone's brain is tightly different and with everyone now trying all sorts of new like cannabinoids and psychedelics and goodness knows what kind of into cross interactive effects could happen, so that's another thing and that's why people are perceiving very carefully.
01:27:39
Now we're gonna add we're gonna cross effect maybe a electrical stimulation and a psychedelic we don't know what will happen um, so this depression effect has been of concern for a while but now the dynamics grow well understood that research seems to progressing forward a lot more so fascinating area for that one, hopefully be it will be well understood and rehabilitation arena before it gets applied in the augmentation arena.
01:28:07
The other one that's really interesting I ran across actually here in clubhouse but it's a roller coordinated and Europe is photo modulation and this one is using different frequencies and for red light in order to stimulate areas in the court, but in the scalp and the cortex the basic idea is distinctly blood flow into those areas and then by blood flow improving different cortical function from what I understand this is course one clubhouse room.
01:28:37
I'm going to do a tissue reading on this is that it does seem it there is. Definitely improvement over a long. Improving areas in on the brain surface so you're not talking anything like deep brain like hippocampus would be a deep brain structure and that governs memory but you could get things like language and you can get to see what's like certain like visual like visual cortex which is visual processing all useful stuff so that could be extremely useful so it's limited but extremely useful um other downsides downsides it how long lasting it is that's it's a very important question number two is that it's only certain frequencies of All light and infrared so the treatment protocols between one cell had to be very specific and also there is you can't just keep on zapping yourself with it too it's just doesn't it doesn't quite work like that the brain these capital blood the circular system does get used to it so the the doctor who was speaking on a clubhouse was very keen on that he recommend wanted to look into it at the look of the research so it's like anything it has very particular dynamics on how it works in order to be effective, um, so yes and also, The third thing is is that like I mentioned it doesn't get to the deep brain areas so if you want to enhance your memory out of it's most likely out of work, it might it might actually improve memory but I have to do some reading think maybe there is someone who's had provider protocol that affects memory in some way but I couldn't find but there wasn't mentioned on the clubhouse talking went on to and I haven't found one yet on the article they read so those some of the really interesting thoughts that is coming down pipe for augmentation and that is just that is non-comable.
01:30:31
So um and that's not that's not even counting any of the existing stuff for biofeedback eye tracking stuff that's been like out for decades already some of you might have heard those technologies already and I'm leaving those out because you can just google that those come up much more readily this stuff it's like you have to like translate transparent stimulation like it won't come up on multiple searches get the look look at it or look Google scholar search on it in order to find it or an even photo modulation.
01:31:02
I was in neuroscience for a long time and I didn't hear. About how's your club out so I just making everyone aware of it, these are interesting topics and here's what's the part of the play again, they are still in the research experimental phase we do not know what the long-term.
01:31:19
Consequences of using these technologies or and we don't know what the side effects are for these. So if so the R still under investigation and should be considered as such until we understand better on how the improved human cognition and what sort of consequences that would mean for the human body and for the human brain.
01:31:43
And I'm done. And I was amazing Garrett. Do you mind if I ask some some neurophysics questions? I'll try to answer some of these. I don't notice on me, obviously TMS and transcranial. I know the most about the other ones. I'm not I'm not as good as I'll try.
01:32:01
Okay, so I'm wondering what are what are some of the neuro correlates to depression? Specifically like so I guess there's the you know, some people can some people can say well this uh this so how the circadian rhythm can affect depression sleep deprivation neurogenesis or a new protein synthesis, it like can can interference with new proteins synthesis cause depression can inflammation cause depression.
01:32:31
Can a metabolic disorder or the inability to produce a dent ATP cause depression and so go ahead. That's a very broad question. I mean, the answer is yes everything approaching synthesis because my recollection is stalking to a near endocrinologist and time though if you have a pro dot problem protein synthesis you there is some other dearest similar metabolic thing going on that you're probably going to feel sick on something else way before you feel the breast, um depressed is probably going to be a consequence of your feelings sick, um, so I want to say yes, maybe except that one.
01:33:21
So, I'm just I'm just throwing that out there because the way we understand the brain is that it's very it is. Blood flow it's. A situation it's sensitive to neuro chemical levels and since the nutrition it senses all these things. So through all these out of alignment, it gets throws a fit.
01:33:40
And if it's not anxiety it's depression. So that's what that blood neuroscience is telling right now. I mean, it might be anger too. There's a lot of people with CTE electronic traumatic disulphography that just you know, they get really. Um so I mean how they've been I mean, they don't really some of them don't even report depression.
01:34:03
They might feel depression, but they don't report it. So just saying is that there's a lot I mean depression seem to be one of those fact one of those things that brought that emotion that is an emotional signal that we experienced saying something's wrong, um, as far as as far as what body literature is indicating.
01:34:24
So, yes, I will say that I'm saying that's why I've seen the qualified yes because the exact mechanisms like okay, what is What are the like if you ask me what is the percent particular mechanism how does inflammation translate into some chemical the triggers the lack of dope serotonin from being released that causes a well in this case with the dorsal lateral prefrontal cortex from decreasing activation and I don't know.
01:34:53
I don't know what that pathway looks like but I know there is that I've seen that there's these there are correlation studies that show that there is a link there is a decrease in activation, which is just don't know just I just, Can't help tell you how it gets there so I mean so I I guess a long time ago.
01:35:14
I read something about people were trying to detect depression with EG and they were saying that there's difference in the bank and the vans maybe there's more theater delta, maybe there's less off or beta and someone who's depressed compared to their their baseline women are not depressed.
01:35:34
I and but so like what I was thinking was okay, well what would have what if also like the amount of? I I just was like wondering like because because you know, I just thought about that the fact that this is a weird idea and it could be totally wrong but but the fact that you we um, you know, some of our are brainwaves oscillations are just characterized by a house slow or rapid they are basically theta is very slow beta is a much faster and you know, I thought about well if you're if you're you know, maybe if someone has a metabolic disorder, And their brain is not able to produce as much ATP, they're you know, maybe maybe they're yeah, maybe they're also being interfered with their metabolism being interfered with with lots of us stress is causing inflammation which is also interfering with their with their bodies of ability to to produce energy and because they have less energy they can't they're brain can't operate as fast so it it has less energy so has to run slower so you'd see more slowdown and in the theta you see more more.
01:36:46
Prevalence of theta and delta and less prevalence of the faster brain waves like the like the beta and alpha and and this would be like the idea is that that the the some some forms of depression will be just basically like. Metabolites or from you know you can't produce yourself can't produce enough energy and but then all the all these treatments of of for depression like basically with SSRI with psychedelic medication or TDCS with TMS with photo modulation, these are all stimulations all will all different ways of stimulate the brain in different areas, so that means you're you're trying to increase brain activity and so you see these we see these temporary effects all the patient looks happy for a while right and then they're followed by like this immediate depression now.
01:37:34
I'm set like I'm just like well, I was happy for a while but I don't know what happened. I Can't. Think I'm tired right and then that but the idea is like yeah well that didn't solve the problem if the core problem was is that the patient's cells are not able to make enough ATP and you like it's like there's not like but you just by stimulating the patient you're like in increasing the brain activity, but what but what they really need is they it's like increasing the demand with that increase in the supply and the problem is they don't have enough supply of energy and we're just gonna increase the demand to so that just but without increasing the supply of energy that's right, that's something.
01:38:13
Thought I mean I would say everything but the transcranium and yet explanation because the ones with those studies they have they have not seen it depress it after effect with using it for depression patients, there's no what's I can't remember the clinical term is but they don't have a resurgence of depression after a treatment or after continue treatment of that so it's it's not stimulation the way you think it especially with the magnetics with with magnetics.
01:38:45
I really recommend reading up on the physics behind it. It's fascinating so I'll actually stimulate that area it's it's very different than a lot it it's a very non obvious way of using alternating magnetic fields or into on into trigger very local a very specific area of the brain and doing in a way that gets them it's almost like an agitation rather than a stimulation and agitation is not even the right word for it, so we have a bit backing off the specific technology just in regards to the question of is it's enough metabolic juice.
01:39:23
I mean there. I mean, there are some there are some the I mean this is almost going into the area but the dean of Daniel Los Angeles has you know, this is argument in regards to metabolic activity in regards to like depression and all that what's his name again Daniel and nor is why I mentioned is because his theories are definitely controversial within neuroscience uses a scanning technique called spec yeah, it actually looks at a type of metabolic activity.
01:39:55
But there's nothing problem is that it's very messy it's a very noisy technique and you can certainly don't you look at it and certainly it is useful a certain context but with the brain is that you're looking at a whole bunch of different metabolic processes that may or I mean, there's not just your there's not just neurological cells you're looking at European vascular you're looking about a whole bunch of different things in there and this spec is kind of a lower resolution, which is it just mushes that all together.
01:40:30
So I power but however, he likes it and he uses it and people benefit from that so the reason why I mentioned him. And he argues regards to helping the metabolism for helping your people's helping people's mood and their brain function so how much I find to that personally.
01:40:54
I don't know it's so I mean, it's an interesting point and I got to give it to thought but I'm out on I'm I mean, I'm still undecided on that particular point because there is a lot that goes into the I mean when you look at healthy people who have, Traumatic brain injury and they get depressed what get angry it's obviously not a nutrition issue it's not an energy issue it's not even a blood flow issue there's definitely scarring in their brain going on there's definitely there's different other things going on that happened to their brain or people who have suffered an ischemic stroke.
01:41:38
I mean that the artwork type of, Different type of blood clots the brain. I mean that area of the brain just had a major type of problem because they have lots of oxygenation it's not a nutrition issue it's a it's a direct respiration that definitely suffered because of oxygen deprivation for a period of time so it's there a lot.
01:42:00
I mean that the metabolism and metabolic efficiency could be an issue and I'm not going to roll it out. I'm just going to I'm I'm just pulling out there's a lot. I'm just saying there's a lot of other ones. For a bigger fish to fry in in the hierarchy and in the realm of possible causes, they're bigger ones the potentially fry first sure, um, I just want to say that um there there is one particular TMS story it stands out that I haven't really seen a real response to from anyone yet but the article is called too good to be true how TMS damage my brain by James Hall.
01:42:40
And so he he's a 73 year old he says sorry 37 year old man and he says that he did the he went to the Mayo Clinic and he did the non evasive procedure that uses magnetic fields to simulate nerve cells in the brain and so so his articles about his his experience and and you know, they basically he says they they pushed him to max out his his treatment but his symptoms got worse and he developed tenitus and some other like really frightening symptoms it that just went beyond his.
01:43:15
What he had ever experienced before so so he started have some serious health issues and and so then but then he so after he had this, you know months later he started to to reconsider basically TMS is basically like being a descendant of electrical therapy. I know it's it's it's there's a lot of differences, you know, I've looked into it a lot there's a lot of you know, I guess you can get very specific about the frequency patterns and the direction of where you're sending the stimulation and and and so it's not if It's.
01:43:50
If TMS is just this really blunt instrument. I'm sorry if if if electric most of therapies are really blunt instrument, you can is TMS is a lot more precise but still team messes is more of like a shotgun than a scalpel, right? And then so anyway but it's like if so I think this article is is at least good to think about in terms of like yeah well I wonder why there's no there's this this is at least one like really negative story about TMS and and so maybe it's not.
01:44:27
I wonder if there's if there are stories being swept under the right end of the road because a lot of the talk about TMS is on the marketing marketing side of things. Well I hope this day specifically I know when I've done it and the protocols that I've seen or come out since in verse the clinic when they when they have clinical when they use it clinically is that if there are any neurological adverse effects like tinnitus or speech impediment or motor blossom motor control or patient complaining is to immediately stop so I don't know what the hell may always thinking actually.
01:45:02
I know research should be researchers are male that have used TMS and they've used the same protocol. I don't know I mean, it could be I mean things could have changed at mail. I'm not I haven't worked and again like I say my bio I'm being junior now. I'm not being your current practicing neuroscientist so it is possible that they change something but one so as I left the field however things were different in that those type of neurological symptoms was an automatic stop to any procedure or to any protocol and that essentially that this person either it was it was essentially a patient comfort level.
01:45:45
With the first like any like any procedure where the surgery with with getting, you know, getting a mole removed or anything else, so yeah, it's kind of how to dig into the story details later in regards to that because getting a beginning response like tinnitus is highly unusual and also very boring because that is the temple lobe the temporal lobe is highly excitable part of the brain and also temporal lobe is where a lot of seizures occur so any any neurologist or any, Murals psychologist where this salt would say parent you know that might be worth backing off of it we're getting something that you know, getting a part of the system for the auditory neurological system that's being a little too excited let's see what's going on here, especially that's not the area they're targeting with TNS, you know, if they're targeting like visual cortex which is back the brain of getting part in the teeth temporal lobe with acting up that's worth investigating right that's something more that's something we're looking at so that I mean, there's a lot in.
01:46:55
This. Story there Nope So yeah I don't know I can't say about that particular example I had said that everyone who came into life who came in eye level was practicing came walking back out had a very good time. The only person who did not had a very good time was actually not under my guidance and he passed out before he even applied the TMS crow because he was so nervous.
01:47:18
And of course, we never applied the team. We never applied TMS to him. We just you know, you know stat made himself comfort made him comfortable until he he woke up being passed out because he passed up because you know, he just, You know obviously he couldn't consent to doing anything at that point.
01:47:33
So and then we figured that we he breaks down, you know, like he passed out and I know how nervous he was and and this kind of send him on his way, you know. So, um, yeah not sure what to make this particular story had to dig into it, but I haven't seen if you have any other digging more articles on it, but mostly I mean, yeah, I mean, I won't say anymore because I'm obviously not that it to tie to the technology at this point or anything like that.
01:48:01
It's just been it's still under investigation for other. Uses besides major depressive disorder. Cool right on thank you. By the way, I I I posted it to my Twitter so if you click on my profile and click on Twitter, it's it's one of the top two links that I just posted but I will also try to send you a message on the Instagram and in a little bit to send to send a copy to.
01:48:28
I'll just try. Alright, um so let me just reset the room and invite anyone who wants to come on up to come on up and ask ask any question on any of these amazing topics like nerve physics brain waves oscillations neural circuits, nerve gear artificial intelligence, or just talk about any any anything that grabs your interest this week on these topics.
01:49:01
My job before anybody jumps up. I'm actually gonna head out it is a touch till midnight here and I have to be in the laboratory early on a Saturday tomorrow, so I appreciate you setting up the room and I look forward to the next one. All right sounds good.
01:49:17
I think about it. I'll invite some more people to.
01:49:24
I'll just see one more thing. I mean scan the article that bold faces of the empty these instance have been reported to the FDA for years or and not been or have but he found others who had problems in the TMS and these voices have not been reported to the FDA.
01:49:40
I mean, I do feel bad for these folks because this was an investigational technology before that. This isn't TMS has been investigable technology has been under investigations since the nineties and I mean under a lot it's been under a lot of research scrutiny. We've used it in all sorts of all sorts of patients all sorts of healthy and non-healthy people to really get a sense of how the technology works and I'm not saying as an eagle thing to sing is because data was produced on it.
01:50:16
Um, it's kind of I don't know what to make of having a few people having severe side effects to make out of it, it's really it kind of disheartening in a way and that's my personal reaction on it, but also it's a little bit. I don't know what's going on an academic researcher level like I don't know what's going on because like we have like a mountain of data and then you get and then after you release the technology and you get a few that are having some very severe problems.
01:50:45
And like, Course when you're in the research environment you're doing the all sorts of you know all sorts of crazy out all what we call outliers scenario it's okay, we'll have all someone who's had half of their brain removed like okay, well how about someone who's had like another whole surgery in order to like a brain implant it literally we have some what we did it on someone who had a brain stent in there, so they're already had a neurosurgery and we applied TMS to it that's how safe it is so I mean, I'm not saying it there's nothing wrong.
01:51:20
I'm just saying there's also there was I just seen there's a Lot of data under a lot of different circumstances that this technology was applied to and then we had a few and then of course there are all these these people who have the significant symptoms coming up and I'm weighing those symptoms very carefully.
01:51:36
I'm like don't know how they didn't. I don't know how we can how we never caught these before so yeah, that's that's that's all I'm gonna say for now because obviously I'm not in the field anymore. I just, you know passing along to the right people and see if they can make heads or tails of it.
01:51:53
Right on right on I and by the way, I'm I so I guess if was the founder of TMS was at Lenox. I don't remember there have been so many people revised the technology, I mean, we had a Japanese person in our lab who further refined the coil and frequency technology after that and we had another postdoc who did from Caltech actually she came from Caltech and she quotes called she created another new coil design so you could say that there was an originator yes.
01:52:28
I don't remember who it was and that name does ring the bell well we had so many people working in so many different designs and iterations of it that I that who knows at this point. There's so many different versions and the overall performance seems like scientific principle but the different protocols and the different mechanisms which they operate are very different so it could be neurostar it could be this particular manufacturer that had this has this particular problem versus all the ones that we're loving the crafted and carrot and built in the lab, you know, so it could be it could be that different.
01:53:05
Right yeah yeah well, I think you're playing that because um, I was just I had read that so there's a there's Lenox protocol um, which so but but yeah, so I didn't know about all these okay, thank you yeah, so there's there's been a lot of different machines. And that's that's important it's not just like as one sort of coil that does it okay multiple many many coils many different and not just Stanford, of course many different.
01:53:36
I mean that Caltech person she went to Utah I know MIT has got a lab that does a lot TMS there's there's a lot of the premier institutes have like built their own or contributes to different design different coil designs and different protocols. I mean right now there's like only two foot people have a kind of established.
01:53:58
Two really good protocols, but as far as coil designs. I think there's like two dozen that are really affected that the so it's a couple different ones and of course, you know it all the particulars from there get more granular on the type of magnetic alloy they use and all that and all the software and all the other stuff.
01:54:22
All right so there's a good deal variation so um again would you would you like to talk more about what you what you usually focused on and and maybe we can learn the group can learn a little bit from from what you do yeah all right so what I do so when I'm doing right now is I am into it.
01:54:42
I am working well last job. I had was essentially working with startups on integrating with large tech companies and, Essentially project managing and like strategically and project managing and strategic planning. So I've transitioned a while ago from neuroscience into engineering and I found that there were a lot of gaps in just not not gaps in it just between the startup world just gas between big corporations and the startup space because I'm used to like this just get things off let's get things off the ground and kind of ball mineral viable product and launch things from there, so yeah just kind of and then from that's the zip what the peers theo calls zero to one and then, Getting it from one to n that's where the most companies are most big corporations are good okay, like we got a product and it's scale it up from there, so it's a lot of disconnect trying to figure it like getting into two mindsets together because they are very different mindsets and me having a technical and engineering background it's like I can help bring that together and that's what I usually try to do and I talk about that in various contexts in around Clubhouse and I also talk about some variety stuff.
01:56:07
I have a fairly good knowledge of crypto in regards. To the technical aspects as well as talking about randomly on geopolitical and behavioral economic stuff because that was one lab's idea of research at so that's a range that's that's what I've done, that's what I talked about it's all it's a lot of fun.
01:56:29
Sounds sounds good, let me see if I can invite some more folks up here, so it's we're not making Garrett work the whole time and also jail, do what are your thoughts?
01:56:48
If you want to speak up Jane.
01:56:58
So so at the moment I what I've been doing is I've invited a bunch of folks to the room, but I do have some questions let's see if I can ask some easy questions. So I okay so um, I am forgetting my questions okay, so don't worry just go just go ahead and go for it.
01:57:27
I'll probably head I'll probably take off in a few minutes so a quarter had a long weekend. I'll take it girl go to bed early so yeah. I know I'm shot I totally I tell the understand we've we've you've been tremendously helpful tonight and that's it's totally understandable we're consuming a lot of a lot of energy from you today, but thank you very much.
01:57:47
Let's see so oh look we got someone someone came up so let me just go ahead and pause and welcome to the stage go ahead and and tell us about yourself and what do you what do you want to talk about?
01:58:09
Is that this is a subject which I enjoy. I don't know enough about it nor are my technically qualified to speak on it so for the moment. I'm going to not ask questions but subsume myself into this just being a listener, so thank you for inviting me up but I promise to participate as we go along.
01:58:33
Wonderful wonderful yeah, I'm at the point where like Garrett like is probably at the plant where we both could like take a 5-10 minute break but we need someone else to come here and talk to do that well he we'll get to take off but okay, here we go, we got Ramsey coming.
01:58:49
Welcome Ramsey. Yeah, so I saw the title the room and haven't been in here for much of the conversation, but I can kind of guess with context clues that you're talking about some of the cutting edge technology in brain stimulation devices. Nerve gear can am I on the right track or can you give me some pointers here?
01:59:16
Oh yeah absolutely great question, um, so yeah so nerve care is that is that the concept of the next generation the ultimate brain computer interface that you you can read and write to the human mind is as if the human mind was a special kind of hard drive and basically change anything or download anything upload anything that's the the ultimate ultimate idealized version of nerve care, but have we get to there is that's a that's the hard work, that's what we like to talk about.
01:59:49
Okay, maybe I can kind of steer the conversation to something that relates to the topic but isn't exactly like this interface that you're imagining but there is. So back when I was in Michigan, I was working on some clinical trials on this new brain stimulation device that treats Alzheimer's but it can also be used to treat other conditions.
02:00:10
It is a brain stimulation device that uses red and so so infrared and near infrared light to kind of like, Basically penetrate through the skull and stimulate the brain and kind of entrain the brain to fire at a particular frequency. So for example people's Alzheimer's they find that when they use EEGs stimulate study people with Alzheimer's with the EEGs, they find that they have a reduction in in the gamma band and the gamma band is associated with you know, some of the higher order cognition, you know, like insights creative creative endeavors.
02:00:54
It's a very high order. You know, Condition so when people are like when people have that aha moment you know when you have that insight when you're doing something creative that's associated with gamma gamma oscillations and there's a whole suite of you know, higher order mental functions that are associated with the gamma band and you find that people with Alzheimer's have a very strong reduction in the gamma band.
02:01:19
So what they've done is they've designed this brain stimulation device that uses infrared and near infrared light and it basically you you put this device on it's like like it's like a helmet, you know. You put this helmet and then you also in a certain electrode into the nose so you can stimulate like the prefrontal areas kind of like imagine if you insert an electrode up your nose you're kind of simulating stimulating the region of the brain that is like not accessible directly through the you know, the the forehead so kind of like, you know, like you're you're orbital frontal cortex, you know that region so so you can imagine this this funny setup where somebody has an electrodes sticking in their nose with the light at the tip of it and then on both sides of their temples, they have this electrode with a light and So these electrodes have powerful lights that fire at the at the infrared and near infrared frequency and so these these these lights are supposed to be powerful enough where they can penetrate the skull and and then these lights are meant to oscillate at the gamma frequency.
02:02:30
So when when when Alice Congress patients are stimulated with this brain stimulation device with is all it is as a light it's light at the infrared frequency in the near and freight frequency and they flicker the light and I think It's like 50 hertz that could be wrong about the exact words, but whatever hurts is the gamma frequency the gamma band and they flicker the lights at the gamma frequency.
02:02:53
And and they've found that this treatment actually has FCC in treating the symptoms of Alzheimer's and what they found is they in order to kind of like come up the next donation of how it works is through some mysterious mechanism, we don't know what the mechanism is whenever is a brain is stimulated by light that's at a particular frequency so somehow the neurons detaches that they're being stimulated by light and they will do this thing called entrainment where they will synchronize with the frequency that is being.
02:03:28
Stimulated so I mentioned earlier that people with Alzheimer's have a reduction in the gamma band in in injuries, so when you stimulate the brain with a gamma frequency and the neurons, you know, the they will tend to synchronize with the gamma with the stimulation so you can you're kind of like training the brain to recapitulate its ability to fire at gamma and this is this has been shown to work this has been shown through clinical trials it initially worked in rats, so they developed.
02:04:03
With rats and then through translational research day implemented it in human clinical trials, and it's it's been shown to work and there's some other proposed mechanisms, you know, there might be something involved with mitochondria that stimulate stimulating things at the with red light kind of my it, it causes some changes in the mitochondria and the production of ATP and this might kind of enable the neurons to be more efficient at cleaning out the the the beta amyloid plaques and tangles.
02:04:34
And the tau protein so it might kind of like give give the neurons a boost in their ability to you know, clean up the gunk that is like clogged up the neurons with the beta amyloid plaques, but yeah, this is some very cutting edge research the clinical trials are currently in progress right now.
02:04:53
I don't know if it's been FTA improved quite yet. I need to double check on that but there's some pretty fascinating research coming out about this ramp Ramsey, can I ask you to to to re restate the the last part about you said the light simulation was helping to clear out the the plaque and The light beta and the top proteins.
02:05:12
Yeah there might be there might be some sort of mechanism with with mitochondria and ATP in which red lights stimulation does something we don't know the exact I or maybe somebody maybe some researcher has elucidated mechanism. I don't know if the top of my head the mechanism but something about red light does something to mitochondria and increases the production of ATP and this might have something to do with enabling the neurons to be better at cleaning out the beta analyte flax and and the tau protein that like clogs up the neurons fold this gunk.
02:05:47
But yeah this research is still in its infancy, but the clinical trials are ongoing people can look it up. I think there's a researcher at MIT, so it's just called photo modulation. I think so. I think okay, all right, okay cool because I always talk to you little about this.
02:06:05
I am not that familiar with this. I'm glad someone is actually came up this is awesome, you know, I found me just add to this Ramsey at some stage. I was looking at this photo modulation and apparently it's had great results with combat veterans in terms of being able to remodel their the the, Trauma that they've had during the combat time, so this is what I remember reading about.
02:06:40
So I got a question there is another hypothesis that I ran across that in my actually also stimulate the vascular chirp because the infrared has also been known to student best return other parts of the body. I gather that hypothesis is not as popular now.
02:07:01
You know, also I've also read research on this is chica speaking on red light therapy and infrared therapy specific wavelengths. Dave and studied. I believe it's um, the reds are six fifty six seventy six thirty those three were particularly studied there's research papers on them and then the infrared ones um were um, eight they were in the eight hundredths and so and the infrared cannot be seen and they are have been shown to.
02:07:36
Help with bone growth and they go directly into the skull that one is very deep the red light is more for surface like circulation and yeah red light is good for circulation and the infrared the deep the eight hundred levels, like eight fifty eight away almost study two and these that one eight oh wait and they they are supposed to help for the brain tagging off the exactly what Romsey was saying I've read about that research.
02:08:09
Thank you. I'm done speaking. Well this is great so far this is lots of good information, so when when Ramsay started I I did see the immediate connection to to to photo modulation that commit care it was talking about but but my first impulse was was to to consider that we were treating the symptom instead of the cause but then when when Ramsey said it's also increasing the production of ATP I was like well that was the cause I was thinking about so so we went back to this so like the production of energy is what is what I was sort of rambling about to get earlier in terms.
02:08:48
Of like my minor hypothesis that that the metabolism was really a root cause of depression and why it's stimulating the brain and all these different ways was not not helping not with whether where we have, you know, we have patients with with s or SRI treatments psychedelic treatments TDCS treatments TMS treatments, so I could and and more that are not responding well, not not 100% of patients respond well and I say well, so maybe it's because those patients are.
02:09:20
Depressed because their cells can't make enough ATP and so if we use photo stimulation to just increase stimulation in part of the and part of the brain and that and you know, basically we could you know, it's like okay, so maybe that maybe the brain is gonna clear out the the the tau protein and the amyloid beta because you're increasing the stimulation but what if that, you know, like the real reason that stuff was collecting was because there wasn't enough ATP being made right but then but then you're like, yeah, I didn't increases 18.
02:09:51
I was like, oh well, so maybe that does address the cause those are my thoughts anyway. Yeah the research is still very early on I know there's a researcher at MIT, I forget her name it's like it's like a difficult for me to pronounce foreign name but I'll try to dig up her name but she's an MIT and she initially discovered that this was effective for an Alzheimer's condition in rash or mice and yeah, it's it's it's worked with rodents and it's cool that they're they're doing some translation or research to try and implement these treatments and humans and it's really fast to see the state of the research.
02:10:31
You know have these advancements before our very eyes and it's very exciting to be alive to see these new developments but I've high hopes that this treatment might be able to help a lot of people and yeah and who knows how much potential the treatments like this might have because that's the best part about it is that it's not invasive, you know, it's a brain stimulation but you're not using electric current you're not using magnetic fields, you're just using light and you're not really cold in the scholar or anything you're just using a strong enough light that it can penetrate this goal and it's having success so yeah, this is what I'm seeing.
02:11:05
I'm done speaking. Ramseur or anyone else and welcome to the stationary you can you can talk anytime you want to serve interrupt me if you want and I'll let you know as you take over. The quick question that I had though was maybe someone can speak to the the big differences and between the stimulation you're getting from these machines and she comes to a lot of different frequencies and the red light you get from the Sun would you mind click if you know the answer?
02:11:35
I'd love to know.
02:11:41
Many different ways you blanks in the Sun there's lots of infrared light in the Sun that comes from the Sun there's red light but there's also lots of bad bad kinds of light that do damage to us too and so that's what I know about that area and yeah those specific targeted wavelengths that I mentioned some of them like 80850 then the 650 on they are they were particularly studied and those are also found in the Sun, so I think that's kind of amazing but um, that's all I, Had to say about that, thank you.
02:12:19
I'm done speaking thank you very much. This is Mira I really liked what Rams Union Shaker has been bringing up about about just photo modulation because I remember there is a paper. I think in 2018 where it talks about reducing tab pathology using near infrared light and you know, they tested that it does rescue like long-term memory and mice models and and it's it's pretty promising new treatment if they if they ever get it to clinical trials, but I I do remember that it.
02:12:53
There was this if you're limitation in terms of in the synaptic level and that it doesn't it doesn't rescue it doesn't rescue the effects on learn long-term potentiation that the original beta amyloid plaque already had. So it doesn't it doesn't reverse any of those effects it just kind of it it.
02:13:15
It lessens it or that it flows it down, which is which is good in itself and I think that it it has a lot of potential for future therapeutic treatments in terms of not only Alzheimer's but also other. Other forms of how does allergies and I think that you know, this is it's fascinating because I don't like I don't generally work in in your degenerate of diseases, but but I I love hearing about it and I just love this conversation.
02:13:43
So there was a there's a really interesting paper about a new protein synthesis and alzheimer's and and I was recent and they were saying that basically when they you know in general with Alzheimer's new protein synthesis is there's a lot less of it happening and you think of it as important for making long-term memories for long-term potentiation, but when they when they treated the the animals to give they guessed, I guess they give me chemical to improve their new proteins synthesis the animals were able to recall.
02:14:18
Their memory is better and so that was very interesting and then and then I I said well what if the new protein synthesis is also an issue in in Parkinson's disease and and sure enough there was a study last year where they discovered that it is it's the same there's an issue with new protein synthesis also in Parkinson's so the question is to if you treated animals with Parkinson's with.
02:14:42
To to induce to you know something give them something to increase their new protein synthesis that would also be another treatment for Parkinson's but why that does anyone especially on that and and and how did how might the photo simulation affect new proteins assist well let's look at the pathology for Parkinson's that is dope engineering pathways production and dopamine and the system tonight substantially, so it's not exactly an easy part to get to because it's not a cortical region that's not a area that's closer to.
02:15:17
The skull it's a subcortical mid brain region, so I guess I feel like a look we'd have to look at. You know it's if it means as far as infrared or near infrared who knows it can actually get down there, but as far as to generation associate nigra yeah, it can the the reason why it's no longer able to work is because substantial nitrate just keep on pumping it's it's main job is to pump out dopamine and then it's been also several departments this is but essentially polls a particular pathway in our guards to other motor area motor area and reward circuit areas of the brain from that from the substantia, but it all starts there.
02:16:00
Because once the substantia nigger starts breaking down and the then he will start using motor control without enough dopamine going to those areas so why proteins synthesis well. I mean it makes sense because you need the proteins as this in order to do in order to build your transmitters as well as repair of repair cells in the substantial diagram, that would be my first double be my hypothesis for why it would help.
02:16:30
That's great anyone else. I thought tonight.
02:16:43
I guess that's her that's like a like have really like a world-class answer like no one. I think everyone else is like there's no way I can go after that.
02:16:52
I try I try every really better fight remember what were the motor cortex areas in the dope which started yet then. I'll be like a my then my advisor would be really proud of me.
02:17:13
Yeah, everyone's so speechless, um, maybe we just need a second to to think yeah.
02:17:23
I think there's something crazy stuff with Parkinson's trying to treat Parkinson's um, there's like deep people have done like using stem cells to restore the substantia nigra people have done like when the electrode there it's electrically stimulating substantially there's been a lot of stuff a lot of crazy stuff to or and most of it's actually worked the problem is it's so invasive because how much tissue you have to cut through an order to do something there, so it's kind of one of those difficult it's it's like we they definitely know that's the trouble spot.
02:17:58
But it's definitely difficult to treat um, and also they know chemically how the treated mean you can give a eldopa which is a dopamine agonist or any of its bill and you can and not will actually help restore a lot of function but the problem with elbow is that you'll give dopamine to pretty much any other part of the brain and you'll get a lot of other side effects like shoot you can get a lot you can get addictive behaviors you can get.
02:18:31
Yeah, there's a lot of different you can get well you can get excessive dopamine which is what excessive hand tremors difficulty motor control, so there's a bunch of different effects so we know everyone knows they Parkinson's is kind of well understood it's just it's hard to get to.
02:18:49
Okay, um, I guess I follow up questions it could be um, what um, is there a part of the brainstem that's that that is is strongly associated with Alzheimer's or is Alzheimer's mostly in this cerebral and in the neocortex.
02:19:10
Weird originates the prefrontal cortex. I mean, I'm not can be that but a big doula no all these different areas of the brain so nice to have Garrett a neuroscientist in here, we're involingly grumpy has a background in it, oh already neuroscientists amazing yeah. I'm done speaking don't worry I'll from whatever so this is an old this it's it mostly starts in the midbrain hippocampal regions of the brain that's where you'll start if what they've done is if it's kind of complicated how we, Can actually know this as because how we know is actually dictates how much we don't understand what the progression so the the plaques so what we've been able to do is that certain certain versions of the the plaques are taggable by pet by using certain imaging techniques sometimes some people have version of the plaque that's not tackable but we're some people but there are a couple mutant versions that are tackable and what we've been able to discover is that the the progression is that it seems to accumulate in the mid.
02:20:20
Term the hippocampus is which is most important for memories, then it it definitely seemed it accumulates there's some accumulation in the other cortical area, so we're talking like speech motor reasoning planning and vision processing alt and all that sort of stuff but it's very little as people get older it definitely seems to accumulate over time.
02:20:48
And it definitely and worse if there seems there is a shrinkage of mass that there's a shrinkage of cortical mass that occurs with the entire brain so and it does in this and this is of course the late stage of the disease so much so that you actually when they do an autopsy compare it to a normal brain you can actually see how shriveled is you don't even need to put on a scale at that point, so there is a so essentially it starts in the bin marine memory is the, First thing that's obviously affected but then it bit I would I hate I it did spreading is not the point the right word, it's just the proliferation of the towel proteins and the beta ammo in plaques it just it it becomes more pervasive as the per disease progresses.
02:21:46
That's probably the best way to describe it what we understand about it, and of course whether that actually causes the brain to shrink or the pain shrinks and response to that that's a whole other question but does the team to progress as well as time goes on? And of course that could be because cells are dying off at the same time it's it's heart of a little hard to know there's a little bit of cause and effect we've done understand with that.
02:22:14
Thank you very much. I'm yeah, this is I will very interested in that disease the terrible disease yeah. And that's why it's hard to diagnose from the image of skin getting because if you don't have that plaque, it can't people can't tag it in it's invisible people are working on different scanning techniques to see if they can get despite the towel proteins or the beta amyloid plaques on a different way, but I haven't seen anything promising yet on finding it and of course by the time you spot it on a scanner in a late stage you the person's have already had enough behavioral problems and cognitive issues.
02:22:59
That you would not have needed a standard to pick it up so it's it's one of those yeah, so the course in the last thing you want to do is take a biopsy of someone's brain to to take a look what's going on. So yeah it's difficult to diagnose on spooky yeah great.
02:23:17
I was gonna say an interesting topic is is the different ways that that that's technology is being used to diagnose these these diseases for just just a quick example, there's a computer program that that has been used to detect dementia based upon how quickly the patient can respond to you know, something coming I guess it's maybe something's moving towards you and you're supposed to either move out of the way or.
02:23:48
And if you are moving too slowly that that might be a sign to your doctor that that you have a symptom that is in is part of the diagnosis that they want to consider but I'm so what I guess my question is what what have you seen in terms of maybe VR AR technology or you know, using using neural networks analyze like the the the gate the person's gate their walk to or to using like a watch to monitor by rhythms or?
02:24:23
Or headworn devices to detect their their blood flow and they're brain activity to try to detect a lot in this area and gasoline or use the universe in California. San Francisco is doing a lot of research doing a lot with this in order to as a not just as a detection of what both this is detection early diagnosis method would be our but also therapy and then um, there's a I mean, like I said, there's a lot of people before using all sorts of wearable biometrics and as you mentioned, AI using air using reaction time.
02:25:02
I think we're referring to his decision time reaction time as definitely one of the early signs for dementia or cognitive impairment. So yeah, there's a lot in that space. Mel tool researchers are definitely working on that. Adam gasoline just comes to mind because I mean he was on clubhouse too recently.
02:25:20
So I see something every all my information is coming. I gotta work on that a little bit but yeah, but um, there's a lot of researchers who are working in this area because it would because doing The full caught a full suite of cognitive tests usually extremely expensive and also can't be done that often versus what you're overthinking mentioning from the mobile test to the VR tests to like the wearables is a lot cheaper and lot more frequent to do and can catch these type of issues a lot sooner.
02:25:54
So they're definitely a lot of interest in that considering the size and scope of the problem. There ever will run into as they get older. Maybe you can talk also from a business perspective what what how big are the opportunities for companies who are considering investing in this? Kind of tech I can't speak to the business opportunities right now because my brain is starting to get really started get tired but is.
02:26:19
She near baby girl or population we look at our general millennial generation, both gigantic large populations that are going to get the dimension that we're going to get some sort of cognitive impairment as we I mean this just to break around the science because that's what's coming to mind right now because after age there after age 30, we kind of hit our or cognitive plateau that we have our kind of cognitive pinnacle sort of speak.
02:26:49
There are some things that do just increase over time like the amount of knowledge that we gained. With the experience that we gained those do increase there's no doubt about that but the reaction time or member our ability to are working memory. Those things decline so 40 and afterwards there's a slow decline but there's also seem to be an agreement from a lot of aging researchers that.
02:27:15
Sit well, you know, 60 70 afterwards the aging the decline starts to accelerate. Now, there are a lot of factors that can. There there are a lot of factors that can of course change the trajectory of it or for most people that accelerate is quite a bit and there's a lot of health factors should be to the decrease and of course.
02:27:37
I mentioned some things earlier people who in the room earlier, like lifestyle factors could change that quite a bit. But the main fact of the main thing is is that everyone everyone controls older runs into this. There is no person that is an 80 year old who has the mental and flush, you know, I would say cognitive speed and capabilities of a 20 year old.
02:28:01
Is not it doesn't there's it's the it's not there unless that 20 year old is somehow calling it totally deficient in some way then that evens it up quite a bit but we're talking an average median average or median 20 year old versus an average median integral there is definitely a huge difference so and then we're looking so you're looking at the population statistic population is that but you're boomers are already hitting that millennials will hit that and then you're looking at the international populations.
02:28:33
I mean a Chinese population. That with their older generation and then the single child up-and-coming generation will hit that eventually Japan has already hit that because they have an aging population. I don't know where India is at when regards to their anniversary their generation cycles, but they will they already have degree of it so they it's it's it's it's a common error common problem as we all get older the only thing we have not been able to improve is the cognitive improvement now do I have numbers on this right now, no.
02:29:11
Are the numbers easy to get yes so I can encourage people to google it because I am tired right now. I can't recall the numbers but the numbers are there because it you can just look at the rate of how many what's the population percentage of the people Alzheimer's in the US today over 65 boom it's it's a pretty it's a pretty well understood number and then we can get like five 20 50 how many people left what's the what is that percentage going to look like over 65 etc etc, and it's just it'll get bigger because we're more people on the planet.
02:29:45
So I think a major emerging concern for people who have that's it's the major emerging health concern for a lot of people is going to be questions about long code in terms of like this has just directly related to what you just said, so you're talking about like basically aged blood vessels and in an age lymphatic system where the degrading of the end of the lining in the destruction of the ace to receptors caused may be permanent effects in terms of vassal constriction and the rigidity of of the blood vessels and lymphatic system the kinds of things you see when people age and so maybe you can speak to a long long.
02:30:20
And rapid aging and and and what we can do to treat ourselves and and what that means well, there's a lot the jury still out what's happening with that. Because I read the numbers too it's like one out of three you're still suffering from positive issues from long coat from after a long coat and this is I've been after they have like after the vaccine and they have a whole suite of like, oh court steroids and other sorts of medications used to treat them, they still have some sort of cognitive effects afterwards we and you mentioned a lot of good things in there because there's a lot of there's a lot of hypotheses like the brain either the virus attacking these two.
02:31:06
Sectors. In the from this through from through the sinus onto the brain or because of the vascular or because of chronic inflammation there's still a lot unknown particular elements of that and because of that we don't know what the long even longer term elements of that are so all I can say is just is this I is what I've been reading about sustaining healthy and to and to get help when needed because there is a lot of cognitive revealed cognitive rehabilitation specialists.
02:31:42
Despite its slowing down well into our later years there's still a lot of neurogenesis neuroplasticity that happens and that's the best thing you can offer at this point because unfortunately I'm right nearing my bedtime. I'm I'm slowing down taking one more question for I start practicing out so art read.
02:32:03
I was just lasting about the Copic questions, we need to buy is on the research as we track long haulers with cognitive issues and see how the continue to respond to rehabilitation to additional. Drugs and medication and see and track if they do start developing other sorts of long-term common impairments or cognitive issues because of their battle of the battle with coven.
02:32:34
I've known has one last question. I have one last question. I just. Okay, I guess it's me so what will the steroids do what the steroids I guess will they reduce inflammation and oxidative stress will and will they also like improve improve blood flow and vastly dilation and also are they going to improve basically the the the the plasticity of the of the cell walls are basically, you know, how like the cell walls are the rigid the rigidity situation, which is which is the aging situation of cell walls and blood vessels.
02:33:11
I can tell you right at the bat. I do not.
02:33:19
Dynamics of steroids to understand what the glucose steroids will do to the mural to the neurons or to even what will do to front neurological tissue. I usually that's when I say I got to go talk to my neuroendocrinologist to find out okay so I can I cannot answer that question it's something I can look up later I guess but thank you very much anyone else anyone else want to say anything.
02:33:52
All right well I've been helpful to aluminate a couple of things and share it down and share a good laughs and and and here's some good point and again to help get some wisdom out there, so I will catch you guys another time peace out wonderful, thank you guys have a great night.
02:34:15
All right. I guess I can reset the room people you can talk about anything you want the the general topics that are neurophysics brainwaves brain oscillations, neural circuits, nerve gear artificial intelligence, and ask any question or talk about anything that's been interesting to you.
02:34:34
Like off-topic, so you know, I'm into quantum physics. I have you psychic somewhat of a psychic like tendencies, you know, and so that goes with you know, energy in physics and so with I want to try that into neurophysics and see if you know you. Or Dilla don't.
02:35:00
Route these things, you know about myself because it's like how to use your psychic like how to use these things it's not really generally taught like it's not mainstream taught you have to figure it out on yourself and you learn like you learn, you know, it's something you just kind of grew up with you know, and there's no training for it so all right, so I kind of want to ask you though because oftentimes people will ask well what about nurse what about quantum physics and the brain and and I, Have many thoughts and I've read a lot and so there are things that I can say but but I think what I want to do this time is maybe listen a little bit more about what are the answers that you're hoping to hear and and what are the answers you're looking for, so maybe that maybe go a little deeper.
02:35:55
I guess um, kind of like. Kind of a um, where it's like coming from in the brain. And then sometimes oh yeah so it turns off when, I have alcohol, you know, I don't I don't drink really at all but I noticed that when I have wine like even just one glass of wine the next day, I can't I can't read things as well and so um, you know, of course we know that alcohol kills brain selfless, but I'm curious about this and I feel like this is a safe space to ask so this is the first time I asked this to like a scientist, you know, like yourself, I've never asked like I've never felt comfortable to really ask a technical person in my life.
02:36:41
And so um, yeah, I just felt comfortable so I just kind of wanted to that's yeah. I don't really have a detailed exactly a detailed the question but I conform that since I feel comfortable with you and I followed you and so you know what? I mean, okay, um sure um, well, um, so I mean, I guess so so, um, I guess so so.
02:37:11
Um, I think I'm well, I guess I guess I'm what I'm trying to narrow down sort of like. Because there was a guy a scientist who proposed a way that quantum effects could affect memory. And and but it doesn't is um, it doesn't directly connect to some other ideas of memory and so there's that in there and then there's if people who talk about you know, how basically, you know, the quantum quantum range is if is a frequency range, I mean it not sorry do I misspoke maybe I'm getting tired and definitely haven't but so now the quantum range is like we're talking about very small things right this is this is common knowledge and we're talking about.
02:38:01
Things that happen at a very small scale and and but they're happening everywhere they're happening everywhere in the brain and when we talk about you know, basically like so a neuron has a. Has a an elect has a has a gradient an electric gradient and that electric gradient, you know, it's like where the positive and negative charges if they're if they're very far apart, then that neuron is going to the neuron east to reach equilibrium the it needs to balance itself and those those positive negative charges was positive negative ions those are those are you know, we're we're we're at the quantum range right there, right we're at the we're at the range of of.
02:38:49
Of atoms and electrons and and particles. And electromagnetism we're we're there we're at that frequency I guess but I mean, but still it's it's it's it's I don't know if so but then there was this guy so there there's this guy who. I guess let me pull up his name real quick, so if you look at the Wikipedia for.
02:39:21
It's a really interesting article for neurophysics, okay, look at the Wikipedia for neurophysics. I know it's great that this is like the name of the of the group and everything you go to this Wikipedia, it's actually I love it. I'm gonna write down that. What's ready yeah so um, so so the narrow go to the Wikipedia article for neurophysics, which is this so what so ironic that that where that's where we're we're going to try to answer this question so I'm so the guy's name is Hansberger and so he thought that there was a story by Hansberger so um,
So there was a there was a woman who had this dream that her boyfriend fell off a horse and she wrote a letter about it right and the exact moment when she had to stream that her boyfriend had fallen off a horse, um, her boyfriend had also falling off the horse and it had fallen off a horse in a different part of the world.
02:40:21
And but there was no way that she could have received a letter from her boyfriend with enough time for for her to have have written a letter the only way that she could have they the the the scientists hands burger thought the only way that she could have had a dream about him falling off the horse the exact same time as these at the same time that he fell off the horse because this is like before the internet right so before telephones I and so he so he thought the only way she could have had this dream at the same time.
02:40:56
Was because of telepathy so he went and started measuring he started he went in and he tried to to figure out what you know, what was going on in the brain with with with in terms of electromagnetic phenomena right what what what does what's going on can we measure the electricity of the brain this was the question and so he developed he helped develop the first EEG measurements.
02:41:24
And so he's a famous neuroscientist but what he but what he discovered unfortunately at the time was that the EEG signals were were they didn't have enough power to to go anywhere outside the the school itself they just they're very low power signals, so EEG by itself was not gonna be a way for that.
02:41:49
Telepathy could happen. And so at that point in time neuroscience, I forgot about the idea of telepathy and these they said well that they can't be right and and then of course, you know, like well now then a long time later people started talking about telepathy again because they started talking about you know, teleportation from from from quantum entanglement, and and I don't know enough about that too to to it's it's really it's it's like I so I mean, I don't know enough about that to really give you to really.
02:42:26
Say that that is possible isn't possible with between two brains is it's just. I yeah this you know, we're always still learning about the brain and um, I think this is an area which has yet to have some deep research and into it to really understand but um, yeah, that was so interesting what you shared.
02:42:54
Um, but yeah, I mean, this is this this time right oh okay, but you let you talk her. With so interesting what you shared about the talk that you between the the couple. And then how the EEG machine came out yeah, they couldn't it's that's not something you can use to measure really telepathy it has its own use.
02:43:17
I think well. I mean, it's but it was really like the he was it's just infinite he was trying to do to to uh, discover the mechanism of telepathy by measuring the EG and and then came he then came to that. To the to the idea that senses the conclusion at the time that in I think is still the dominant conclusion that there's no mechanism the heat that we can see.
02:43:45
That this weapon in the brain but. But it's cool to think about and maybe yeah, maybe like we're talking about stuff research that people do hundred years from now is that's how far it's how far out it is. I I don't know. That is like so far out. Never know then if my lifetime.
02:44:08
I just made that up. I mean, I don't know when we'll get to it when when people will probably disprove those ideas.
02:44:23
They're fun ideas. I mean, absolutely I'm also wondering about the frequency. I feel like you know. Maybe it's like a certain brain frequency that helps you that like there are certain times when you can like not psychic powers turned on you know what I mean? Like when we were talking about the gamma rays and all of that before.
02:44:51
I'm. I think the data waves. I mean, it's it's it's it's it's really like it's a sort of out of my ballpark to to speculate on on psychic phenomena, really. I I I don't have a lot to say.
02:45:15
I so I I mean, I think there are okay, so I think there are basically some explanation some possible explanations for the experiences that people have that are really surprising and that you may think that you may you know, you might like some people might say okay, well this is this is the only possible in our explanation is psychic phenomenon, but I think that like often there are alternative possible explanations that that that might also work and that might not be related to psychics phenomena.
02:45:49
And so but so like for it, for example, like there was there was some connection between. The two people who so I mean, it's okay, so like um, so I don't know the whole story about because I was like a really old story about the the the girlfriend who had the dream and and and the guy who fell off the horse but.
02:46:11
Um, so I had this experience where I I had this intuition with that my grandmother was gonna die soon and she did and and and and but the thing is like, I also think that it's possible that people who are connected can sort of like like I could like.
02:46:36
If you are if you're next to somebody long enough you can begin to learn their their circadian rhythm. Right. You can begin not just their circular. You could begin to learn their rhythms like they're behavior rhythms. Your mind will just remember the frequency at which they do certain things.
02:46:53
Maybe at the unconscious level maybe most of most of understanding other people's frequencies throughout the unconscious level. And and maybe so you have so you and some other person you like have you ever like you think of of someone else's name and and and right after that they call you?
02:47:11
And you think wow that that is that is that there must be some there could be some some sort of psychic connection there but the other possibility there is that is that you you were both listening to each other's rhythms and you both made an unconscious agreement that at some certain point your brains made this unconscious agreement.
02:47:33
At some point you're gonna you're gonna try to reach out and connect with each other. And and and then at a certain at a certain time and it's not it's not like a it's not like a time in terms of like, you know May 16th that at six o'clock PM that your brain is thinking about I think about in terms of like, you know, 2,000 cycles of of this abstract rhythm that that the brain is just sort of calculating and you're not really like it's not even coming up to the conscious level but you have this like extra at a certain point in time you both you both start thinking of each other and you both reach out to connect to connect each other like, It's like sync it's like a synchronized clock where you're both planning to connect at that time again and and so even though I don't have a way to prove that that is the case what I'm just saying like just by that story itself there is an alternative explanation for why two people could have the same idea at the same time and it's because the their brains made an agreement at an unconscious level to think of each other at a certain time based upon a deep a deep understanding of each other's biorems.
02:48:46
And so just the fact that there is another possible explanation just. Is is is just something to consider at least.
02:49:03
Sure. So I'm off to school thought that there probabilistically speaking to create a synchrony among large numbers of neurons to fire in such a pattern seems very difficult but having said that. I've been in a situation where like there'll be several people in a room and they're young at the same time.
02:49:28
This could be just a biased observation, but have you expressed in like this and you know studying through why? Such things happen.
02:49:47
I just wanted to add that, you know, I also I feel like people can catch people's energies, you know, there's a bio-electron oh there's an electron magnetic biofield if these call it aura but then it's also scientifically proven that there's an energy field around us they're there's been some like research that it's around 15 feet before they thought it was smaller but new research is saying that it's 15 feet and so I think that being in the same room as the same person.
02:50:21
I also, Catch on people's vibes are very quickly and so that's what I had to add to that and I've done speaking thank you make a what do you have to say about Carl's course Carl's to say. Well you're both bringing up interesting thoughts right now because I am reading a book called rhythms of the brain at the moment and and that book talks a lot about the fact that we in order for our thoughts to in order for our thoughts and behaviors to be coordinated we need a we need a conductor with there needs to be like a basically like essentially like almost like a centralized rhythm maker that is like a like the conductor when orchestra that is is like, you know, okay this happens then this happens and then this happens and they have to happen at the Right time in order for it things to work and so there has to the brain has to be like, you know with its electromagnetic field basically not only it's not it's not it's it's not enough that we have one part of us that is generating thing and we have a bunch of different parts of us that are generating things, but all these all these things have to together sort of like have a sort of.
02:51:35
Have a there's sort of like a high level agreement or a sort of democracy of all these different components where at at the high the high level macroscopic behavior is giving feedback to imbalance to all the different microscopic behaviors across the whole brain and and so there's this there's a there's a micro there's really small behavior and there's macroscopic behavior and there's a cycle between them that they each or each acting on each other through each balancing itself the other the the macros bouncing micro and And and and the micros are changing the macro and and it is it is some it's sort of like well and then well and so we're talking about you know, the biofuel the which you know, I guess the that's that's that's that's this that's interesting and because you know, you would think that that and you know it maybe the the behavior of an electrical system within the brain in terms of and by the way, hello to IO, do you do you want to jump in here and in the middle of what I'm saying?
02:52:45
You can. And yeah yeah comments a little bit so like my team does measurements election next signals of genetic molecules like viruses and TNA RNA we found that they behave very much like fractal antennas so antennas can tune into fields for the distance and so this kind of idea of telepathy.
02:53:04
I don't think is that far off from antennas and signals and that's kind of you know, we just needed very precise and sensitive measuring equipment but there are basically fields that are emitted by people and you can actually characterize. Somebody and identify them from their electromagnetic signature alone, it's as unique as your fingerprint, in fact that signal contains the information from your genome it may be messy and very noisy but the signal is there so if these molecules behave like antennas then the whole system kind of resonates or oscillates and so that that would be my my contribution at this point.
02:53:49
I'm to you can put you plan on a paper to what you're saying so that there's profoundly interesting but you said the biofuel is identifiable you it exists and is unique to the underlying structure, so if you have a sequence let's say ECTG and then I have AC TT I can tell the difference between the two just by the electromagnetic signature in fact how they move and behave and so on can also be characterized in fact in a very similar way to radar we just got awarded a hundred thousand.
02:54:24
Dollar prize for our work and now we're racing to bring it to market so basically it's like a wireless GM sequencer or pathogen detector that uses these waves and we can tell the difference between you know, two very similar strains of a virus so wanting to trace the various variants out there of covered 19 as possible we can also extract the sequence information itself from these systems as well, so it's quite it's quite cutting edge so we don't have a publication out although we are getting ready to release a Publications, one of the more probably be an IEEE but on my Twitter, you can watch the little pitch video that we we had for our company so.
02:55:09
Um, but it's closer to like extreme x-ray crystallography it's not so much the communication information but just as the shape of the molecules know it's more of a resonance phenomenology, which is what we suspect so it's not only the weights like the, Spectroscopy it's not it's not similar to that it's a little bit different but it's like a you require an array of sensors to be able to detect these signals and then using something similar to a multi input multi-output array of sensors, you can make these kind of characterizations.
02:55:54
That was so fascinating Carl and IO, thank you so much for sharing.
02:56:02
Um, So my you can't see you can't see my face but my jaw has just been on the floor just listening.
02:56:15
I just like my jaw dropped I'm listening to to Eric is Eric oh oh so loose keys, yeah I now this is amazing. I I like I would like to if you want to talk about this for an hour the floor is yours. I mean, I just would you mind so I was a specifically how some can you dive more deep more deeply into how you said did you say bacteria was like an antenna it is is a neuron also like an antenna well the the underlying structure the genetic structure the DNA.
02:56:50
Already all these different molecules you hit them with an electromatic electromagnetic wave they absorb some radiation, they allow some radiation to promote through them, they reflect some radiation and from those kinds of processes you can characterize each nucleotide and if you have an array in the same way that a pixel grid on a camera can photograph something and tell you with a structure is imagine a being something similar to radar in the sense that we're sending out different magnetic waves.
02:57:25
And using something like beamforming which is present on the current star link satellite system, you see the dish there it doesn't actually matter where you point it because the dish is able to exploit phase what is it called phase phase shift temporal shift and spatial shift so you're able to accompany all of those parameters and using that you can extract a lot of the information and if you haven't wide enough.
02:57:57
A grid the more resolution the more accurate. And right now we're able to do it to about a single nucleotide which is more impressive than I ever thought was possible within my lifetime, okay so from what I understand from that you're you're sending you're sending something like an EM wave or a beam to to hit the and then and then it is something to do it with the the nucleotide material is is interfering with the the the beam and in such a way that that if you have that you can you can predict its structure if you have if you have like a like an array set up.
02:58:36
I that's that you know that reminds me a little bit of like electrical pedants tomography just a little bit because the electricity will flow through different materials or different speeds and if you take a lot of captures you can you can basically apply to grid and notice where the coincidences in slowdowns between electrical impulses happen and then from that you can you can apply it an image so it sounds like it's like a kind of democracy resonate in the 450 gigahertz frequency range and up and but you do have.
02:59:12
What is it called when you have harmonics but they go downwards instead of upwards so you have that kind of effect as well kind of spreads out in both directions and then you can make characterizations across almost the entire spectrum so depending on what kind of circuitry you have and what kind of signal you can send you can make certain qualifications of these signals quantifications, it's it's quite impressive it was mind-blowing to me that we could even do it and our goal right now is to do it for about 50 bucks, which is crazy because the hardware that we use on the lab is about.
02:59:47
A quarter of a million dollars so trying to break it down a few orders of magnitude is actually quite possible again through a bunch of tricks that are more machine learning bass, but basically doing something similar to computational photography where you leverage machine learning to increase the resolution or resolution capability of a low-cost sensor by training in tandem with a high resolution sensor.
03:00:16
Does the sample have to be crystallized form or can it be in virtual? It can be within the cell and it can be outside of the cells so we can have like so far we've been doing mixed samples and pure samples, so we're able to do both case scenarios which again is this kind of crazy so even if you don't have cells that have like been filtered out and you only have the virus isolate we're able to also identify them a mixed signal where you just have a bunch of cells and you don't know if they have the virus or not and we were able to tell the difference between cells that have.
03:00:52
A particular virus versus another one in fact work done at Purdue University also showed that they were able to use something like Doppler radar to distinguish pathogens so you can look up doppler radar pathogens for two university and you'll find their reference oddly enough they wrote in their article that oh it's so exciting because we're the only ones doing it in our team was chuckling because we didn't publicize it because we're racing to market not racing publications, so.
03:01:22
And good so that was the favorite was if every 24 scientists use doppler it appear inside cells. But yeah probably a protein university it's a guy who standing in front of a table. I think that's kind of the image that they have yeah. I genomics with the hand-held DNA sequencer.
03:01:42
Researchers develop handheld sequencer the case standing in front of table, there's lights. Integrated circuitry oxford nanopores sequencing so that's you so they're concept is is vaguely similar to what you're going to do tonight yeah somewhat yeah, okay, um. The so but you mentioned that the the DNA is like is so the DNA and you're not so you're not referring to well.
03:02:08
I guess you said viruses too if you take viruses but so but then you met you mentioned a sad satellite dish, right? I did sell a dish exploits phase shift temporal shift and what was the other one? Facial temporal and phase shift so spacial temporal and phase oh okay so that's kind of what they use for like reception if you look Google memo am Imo that's kind of the principle that they use there so your phone can actually have reception and areas that are noisy so how do you pass a signal through a noisy or perhaps shielded region and that's how you do it, you kind of modulate these different parameters.
03:02:50
Okay, so okay, can you explain it's a super primitive question because I usually think about the brain is just having like temple and spatial frequencies but but but maybe someone else can argue the brain has temples facial and phase frequencies, but what is what is phase in this context it's shifting the frequency so instead of sending like 450 gigahertz you spend you send 451 or you modulate between 400 and 451 and you do it in increments of 20 megahertz and as you do that.
03:03:25
Generate a data set that is this curve and then you shift that within the space so you move over one pixel or something and then you can also do two of them simultaneously but different positions and various combinations thereof so that you can actually get your signal through and kind of extract as much of the signal as you can.
03:03:48
Yeah, okay, that's possible. My understanding is that when you shine a coherent beam to a sample the the beam would actually be reflected under the the reflect the signal would be in mixture of the original signal in phase and some component that's going to be phase shifted relative to the original phase of the beam that was shined upon it it's just the general behavior of anything that anything that you see.
03:04:26
It's a general phenomenon, so I think that's what you mean by phase shift and you can actually clean some information by looking at the degree of phase shift in the refractive signal or refracted the signal. I think that's what you mean not like as well using a beam like any sort of optical system using just radio waves so I would just say it's more like radar and the phase shifts it's kind of like throwing an orange ball from the left hand side and throwing a blue ball from the right hand, so.
03:05:01
High and if you throw the left one then the right one or the right one then the left one you sort of the both you throw one or not the other and vice versa you do those all those kind of measurements or those kinds of signals and reflections and transmissions allows you to cut away a very nonlinear way at what the signal is, so in the signal is what we claim has the information about the structure encoded in it, but the main principle relies on this resonance phenomenon.
03:05:34
We presume it's a residence phenomenon, but you know, that's just the simple claim that all matter has electromagnetic properties and so it's basically just molecular radar if you want to think about it. Yeah that was that's just reminding me that there is actually discussion of doing phase shifting in an affner that I had blanked out on but basically yeah, they all they're alternating different frequencies to get it to construct an image with with functional air for a spectroscopy so yeah, it's like well I had that information in my head but I hadn't connected it together anyway.
03:06:14
I but do you have more so chica was talking about like okay, so if you have a bunch of, Maybe this Carl who said this but there's a bunch of human beings in the in a room and they all start yawning at the same time so it was brought up that human beings have a biofield and that and then and and then the idea is is that well our DNA and maybe maybe our viruses.
03:06:44
I'm not clear maybe our viruses, maybe our bacteria can act as antennas that can pick up the signals of other people's biofuels, is that correct do believe that I'm in and maybe how how, Might that work just interested. Yeah yeah that is kind of how it works, they all tend to exhibit different properties bacteria have a peculiar property of having a thin film which kind of shifts the frequencies you get a phase shift at the membrane and then the other phase shifts upon reflection back through the the same membranes or transmission through the membrane, but they're able to see enable or they're able to see with inside of a cell to be able to even characterize whether it's pathogenic so work done by darker with the radio bio program.
03:07:35
Also sought to understand the relationship between organic or living matter kind of like DNA RNA and its relationship to the spectrum in the house certain therapies and other thing it basically sounds like you're building an energy weapon that can like give you cancer from far away or virus from far away and that's actually not that far away from the truth of what's currently capable or possible with the technology so I can do everything called water memory, it's a controversial documentary by or.
03:08:10
About a French scientist who actually discovered that days was caused by HIV when the Nobel Prize for this and his lab actually discovered that HIV itself LTR 104, h for whatever it was had a unique spectral signature and they were able to reconstitute it using just the PCR process so a ribosome a bunch of letters a few primers and then all you're doing is you don't actually have the virus as a source, you're just stimulating the sample with the signal and the ribosome was able to.
03:08:45
Read. Construct 97% of this virus and even though it's very controversial the unfortunate thing is is in the naming of this paper in this work that was the only controversy because they called it DNA teleportation which is already a keyword in physics, so they were just laughed out of the room and for the longest time.
03:09:05
I was like is this possible is this bullshit was this guy lying people told me that like, you know, there's no glorious stuff to distortion field that's they say everything they say ridiculous things and people disagree with them because they have nobel prize and then we actually did the Experiments and I was like holy fuck I can't believe that it actually works I can't believe this is possible what the hell's wrong with these people turns out that you know.
03:09:29
Shanghai genetics genomics institute, I think higher pin so they were like yeah, yeah, yeah come work in China, don't worry about it, the Russians are also working on this I know because I know some people work in the Russian Academy of Sciences and we wanted to collaborate with them and our government here in Canada did not allow us because of that Chernobyl incident we were told that if I tried to apply to Russia, I would be arrested at the airport here because I was also, Trying to bring like VR technology and do all these other things and have a technology transfer so that our university can also collaborate with collaborate with them and there was so much political friction that it became unfeasible and impossible.
03:10:13
Wow. I'm sorry I'm like looking up right now the effects of a electric magnetic and electromagnetic fields on on bacteria, but but and so and you've you've also confirmed that this is is the electromagnetic fields are affecting DNA and RNA correct by changing their changing the phase shift, so this is so this is research.
03:10:37
I can look up. I guess is what you're saying. Yeah.
03:10:44
It's fine but I think there's an episode of voices from DARPA where you can hear them talking about a little bit about this but it's it's very difficult to find any information about this because it's a branch of radar technology and that kind of technology is heavily regulated kind of like nuclear weapons, so the knowledge is kind of very restricted or very like access is someone difficult so.
03:11:13
Like those difficult to learn anything about radar when I was first trying to understand or figure out this problem like there was like one set of lectures and a few books and most of the resources that I was able to get was. Through the the pirate day of the enough and most of the servers were hosted in universities.
03:11:31
I may or military bases so I was like, what is this kind of weird like you guys are hosting a book about radar technology in the server near a military base in the US. I was like this seems like some sort of like, I don't know any pot or something but using those texts and, Reading about it more allowed me to advance closer to this problem.
03:11:54
So the very weird almost conspiracy like journey that I've had. Yeah I mean I noticed that like I have a tremendous amount of knowledge about different brain computer interfaces and companies but but the experience of you know, people like I'm in a bubble somehow because like I realize when other people want to know about brain computer interface is you don't have the foggiest idea and they can't find out like they're they can't find information about it.
03:12:20
I don't know why but it's like they're they're experiential reality is is different and maybe that's because they're personal Google search habits or something. I don't know but Yeah always doing an anonymous Google search. In fact, I never just use one source so you know, you have to use a few sources but it's it's it's definitely difficult.
03:12:43
Some things can be shielded like sometimes my partner is able to find something that I can't and only after I go into incognito and anonymous mode and all these other things on another search engine I end up finding it. So other times the results don't even show up. So, I'll know of a website that has this information but you can't get to it.
03:13:04
For a Google search. There's definitely something fishy going on but I don't I don't fault them for it because it is quite dangerous. Like if you if you pay attention to Haiti go two years ago, there was some sort of energy weapon acoustic or electromagnetic that resulted in the ambassadors having brain damage in their.
03:13:27
Was it white matter in their brain coherent or congruent with? Concussion but they didn't have concussions And so it's not beyond the scope of this kind of technology to do those kinds of things to hurt people. So it's quite dangerous like the joke that I have about our technology is you know, you have a movie like twelve monkeys or the guys walk around the airport in the airplane with the virus in his pocket.
03:13:53
Well, I could be walking around with a transceiver that is emitting this kind of viral signal and the virus will spontaneously form within your own body because you have all the building blocks to do it. So it's it gets kind of crazy like your body is. Always having these components of RNA DNA broken the parts of cells flowing through it your body's filtering this but if we have the right kind of signal at the right time and the right place and we repeat it for long enough statistically these molecules have a higher probability, if you can bias the field that they're occupying.
03:14:32
That's such a mess I mean like now like okay well, how do I walk around as a some sort of, you know fair day cage from now on? Yeah, yeah basically like that's that's what that that's actually the first thing that we actually addressed was well, how can you develop a countermeasure for this?
03:14:49
Can I now develop a device to the you know, a frontline worker or warfighter in a new theater of war is able to wear on their person and not only detect a new pathogen and an environment but also send out the correct carrier wave or signal that prevents. Them.
03:15:08
From becoming infected from this virus so there's there's all sorts of things that you want to work on there. Wow, so the implications of this is is that you could you could you could wirelessly detect a virus in an environment just by like leaving a device and if it if the virus appears in the doorway or something you you'll you might detect it precisely.
03:15:34
That at like like a hundred like a hundred thousand dollar investment why wasn't your company given like a tent that your company is gonna be $20 company that's like why it wasn't a 10 million dollar investment, it might be a hundred million dollar investment in if there's a few months so we're working on this story there's also a lot of like bias, you know, those with homes the kind of friction that she created with her bullshit about look our sensor can do this we've had we like responsibly we've done the responsible thing and kind of gone through and done the science and kind of estimated things very carefully.
03:16:09
And we've been very you know very determined in fact when we contacted some places like DARPA of all places who inspired us to work on this and they even when I reached out to them, they said yeah, come on send us your application. I sent in the application they said you can't do it, you don't have the technology you can't do it and it's not possible and then my approach to that and this is kind of a testament to how stubbornness can sometimes play a bigger role than talent or persistence, my response was well, you know challenge accepted.
03:16:42
I'm gonna show you some. Of what we worked really hard and our team was able to have non-trivial results that were quite impressive and now we're trying to move forward because it basically presents the future where you'll have a device the size of a thermometer infrared thermometer that we call up the domometer that you can put to your head or put to your skin or even aiming in the area and be able to characterize the pathogen content or other aspects of that area, so it's a it's quite exciting.
03:17:18
So this is an infrared thermometer, well no like lichen into it infrared thermometer revolutionized the last century we have something that we're calling upon and we're aiming to the same kind of form factor so handheld device 4050 bucks max that can tell you within a second whether you have covet or not and you can measure yourself many times a day kind of like you do with the thermometer because right now the rapid testing that exists is limited by the very nature of the consumables that are required which during the pandemic.
03:17:53
Can become quickly consumed what's the what's the etymology of the word pathometer what it was a constructed from.
03:18:02
Pathogen meter so it tells you it's able to neater or measure how much of a pathogen there is if you have a better name please I'm open for suggestions, but that's kind of the easiest way to think about it that's super quite super cool. I just wonder what it wouldn't happen.
03:18:18
You were too pre-programmed the signature that you're looking for yes, it's not a skin for all is it is able to scan for all so the whole point is that you are able to extract sequence information, although we can just very quickly you give me the signal or you even give me just the sequence I can synthesize the virus measure or estimate its signal just from that information alone, so there's some theoretical calculations we can perform in some empirical calculations and then that could be sent out if this device will.
03:18:53
Be integrated let's say into every cell phone everyone all the sudden could know whether they have covered or not, in fact the recent pixel 4 XL and pixel 4, non-XL had something known as the solely sensor which is a small little radar chip and in fact the team that we're working with helped develop that radar chip and so that's kind of the technology that we're building on something that already exists in a phone and integrated into the pixel 4 because the millions of dollars were already spent on the development of this chip the refinement of the Se kinds of technologies the estimated like $12 per phone you're able to integrate it so it's it's quite interesting very low cost so so in I just I came in a little bit late but to be clear you're developing a technology that is able to measure the let's call the biological oscillation or the vibration or frequency of what you pre-engineer design as the frequency that corresponds to the genetics that people represent as.
03:20:03
The first COV2 virus or what causes covet. We just detect the virus using its electromagnetic signature in a similar way to how radar is able to bounce some radio waves off of a plane and characterize which planet is yeah, okay like spectral information or spectrographic technology now how are you characterizing the signature frequency that's specific to the star COV2 virus has it has yet to be isolated when?
03:20:38
So what are you using as your reference point to let's say okay. I have every we have the virus yeah well. All the CDC articles that I've read and the peer review journals that I've read how what are you referring to yes, we have the viruses that a morphological petri dish that is grown and then you're using that as the reference point is it something that corresponds to this specific CDC related genetic information that is represented as corresponding to the root cause of coven infections by I don't know we mean by root cause but what we're able to do is take various forms.
03:21:24
Of. Event so it could be a mouse swab it could be a swish it could be a sample of cells that are collected and we can identify within each of those whether the pathogen is present or that or which pathogen. And do you have to do a similar like an RT PCR do you have to do a exponential growth do you have to no concentrate it or expand it so you're no able to have a level of specificity and accuracy of metering that you can put this on the skin is that the the yeah, it's it basically works like you can put your finger on the sensor and we can detect with the high degree of confidence between.
03:22:11
Or of this whether the virus is within your finger or whatever so you've mapped the signature frequency of covet to a level of specificity or tolerance. That you can put something on your skin and then that is pre engineered to receive whatever you and you organize it to have or engineer it to have it can read that highly highly highly highly specific signature frequency.
03:22:44
Yeah, it is very convoluted way of saying that but yes well, I mean, I'm pleased I might so I have I'm extremely familiar with biological oscillation units and vibration and metering and monitoring systems and you know the star COV2 virus and covet and etc just I this is I mean, I'm excited this is the first I've ever heard of that level of accuracy and specificity being available as far as.
03:23:17
Being able to specifically pinpoint. I would assume it's tied to the genetic. The genetics of the virus that's why yeah it's the nucleus right molecule itself that is giving this signal and that signal I would say like this the signal exists so that's the first thing that we checked does that exist and then we checked for unique this and once we had unique this we were looking at specificity and how low can we go with that specificity of genetics and we were able to bring it down to a nucleotide single nucleotide level, how are you using as far as the are using well, so there's poor nucleotides and how those obviously, Are in order right it's they have certain residences in the 450 gigahertz range and about so in terms of radio waves that's kind of where they're responses live.
03:24:10
I'm just saying in regards to they're being for let's call on base pairs or for nucleotides that are really a wide variety of combinations all of those combinatorial matrices or experiences creates a quote unquote individual frequency or vibration the idea that you're able to one get those nucleotides to get.
03:24:34
That. Order of nucleotides in that specific order 3 under the. Perspective assumption that that is corresponding to covet in the peer review journals. I read that wasn't conclusive so to speak yeah so some worked on by Israel actually have a lot of money behind them and they were actually using antibodies other people were using nanoparticles and just our differences that were able to do it from the signal alone and then using some you know, fancy combination and geometric configurations of these sensors.
03:25:15
I would you know to describe it as like an array of sensors not just one sensor and this array of sensors is able to. Take certain measurements of these nucleotides, so let's say have like ACTG ACT and then they're in this weird kind of shape what happens when I paint the A's what happens in sensor one one one happens to sensor one one two and one one three and so you see them all on this grid and we're able to make certain measurements and certain resonances come off each of these molecules and if you're very very careful you can extract some information about it how close does the the, Transmitter and and the device the transmitting and in detection device have to be to what your measuring and yeah right now it's a you put your finger on the sensor that's the nature of what we've been pursuing but you're able to focus these beings and all sorts of ways.
03:26:20
Because I mean this the second part about how like how you could just detect a pathogen in in a room, that is a tall it seems like a bigger problem if right. Yes or no it depends on the relatives energy and so on it's it says it's just a different problem like one of the other things that we were working on was something like a smoke detector where you have passive airflow and instead of having it on the ceiling you have it on the floor and eventually it comes across one of these final products and so how that kind of system as well, so there's all sorts of ways you can do it long range you can do it short range right now, we're just focused on close range settings to be more medical Apple.
03:27:10
Location anything else in my opinion would be a little bit more military focused if it was but I guess I guess in the in the room sensor you're waiting for the the virus to fall on the sensor in a way through event some sort of ventilation system. Yeah, that's that's one way that this little smoke detector thing yeah, but if you had something like you could also have continuous monitoring so something like on your on like a smartwatch you can you can have a set up like that as well and in fact, that's.
03:27:42
That was one of the applications. I mean, my tile was a you know, I has been a discussion, you know in the room but I was a you know, I'm running around so didn't get chance to come up and so I heard the Iowa sharing the very exciting technology there working on and now that you know today I just had interest in this, you know mems and so yeah MIT, there's a group that worked on shrinking the ramen.
03:28:21
Spectroscopy down to say can be incorp in the cell phone so basically coincides chip that's just you know, to me, that's a fascinating revolution. I mean programs right so for what you're trying to do. I think if it's can be made into already, you know at the level of.
03:28:48
Product level that that's really fascinating right, so I mean in terms of a, Sample preparing there's also a I worked with we were trying to help a group also not MIT but a related to their startup programs one of the price winners, they're they're doing the MEMS basically the ASIC level of you know, carbon nanotubes so chemical sensors, so that's I mean, it it it has you know, they have they had one through the you know, IP and pattern all that preparation but still it's turned out to be very hard for that technology to to go to the market, of course, they they'll have a lot of advantage being people and also can low-power and without so again for for me to understand your the product your development is high.
03:30:02
I mean on the line of some mica's question, yeah. I mean there's the noise. I mean, there's so many pollutions right so so it has to be a very pure sample so that you know, okay, so it's it's not we've shown that even with mixed samples we're able to detect this in I'll just refer you to the technology fundamentally already exists in cell phones.
03:30:26
I'll direct you to the pixel 4 solely sensor, which is a compact radar sensor already on the market and in fact we're working with the team that helped develop that sensor so we're already working with the team, that was a Good Google so it's it's a much easier undertaking when you have already this product that is out there and you're just trying to develop this new application and new IP.
03:30:51
Can you I didn't miss the earlier discussion, can you repeat the keyword to search for the radar the the Google SOLI SOLI yeah so many censored by Google a tab advanced technology something so um, I was wondering I don't know if you've heard of race in the race machine but I'm wondering if you could potentially target the frequency and I think it was like from the 1930s and the idea was that you could find out the frequency of the like molecule that.
03:31:26
Looking for and then like essentially use resonance to yeah yeah, like a wine gross yeah yeah that's that's basically like it's like the movie Elise and with that tanning but there where you can like lay down and it not only can detect these aberrations maybe these cancer cells and then selectively cook them because you can know the exact sequences responsible for that mutation and kind of like you hone into a bridge with the correct gust of wind at the correct rate you can actually destroy some of these things without actually exhibiting ionizing or with.
03:32:01
Without imparting ionizing radiation, so it's quite like the numbing linear effects are very counterintuitive.
03:32:13
Are you sure you also working on that your DC that in the long term is like practical application or no, it's something that we are exploring in fact we're going to be doing a. Proof of concept study with the London Health Sciences Center here in Canada. Ourselves and seeing yeah what kind of what kind of things are possible and that's one of the things that we'll be exploring to see if we can actually target these things much more specifically because personally that's my guess as a physicist.
03:32:45
I'm like yeah, that's an easy problem. I mean while everybody else is like rolling their eyes saying that holy shit that's very difficult so it's my hope. I believe that that's possible theoretically and the only question when I first got into this problem was does the technology exist in my time kind of like that iron man father, his father was telling like, you know, Does it unlimited by your technology my time and so I was very curious to see if the technology of my time is limiting in this because when I first thought of this about five years ago, the computational power was not there to process these data sets the sensor sensitivity was not there yet and so a lot of things culminated together very quickly during the pandemic and coordinating between two labs accelerated programs and a company was was quite stressful, but somehow we did it.
03:33:41
Would you maybe share again you said you said we need to first thought of this five years ago or are you the the key and the inventor and on the patent is that what you meant yeah yeah, yeah. I'm good chief technical officer. Wow cool Vegas, that's like we were already honored to have you with us and now we're like even more honored.
03:34:03
Thanks.
03:34:07
Is it the pattern out already or is under your name so we have a provisional patent and a few other things it's not under my name here, but some of the work that we will be releasing and filing will have my name on it, so. It's not the on the Google cannot be searched by Google yet right so that's right yeah not yet, we just incorporated.
03:34:35
I think in January it's a lot of paperwork is still going through so. As I mentioned so the keyword will be I think my class a good question that I've noticed and like type of a meter is that if you go if you go on my on my Twitter, you can actually see the pitch video for the accelerator program where we presented this work so you can go there and see kind of how we've called it you have alternative suggestions on what kind of keywords we should use but no existing terminology that.
03:35:16
Describes the technology in that way, it's very much like people who just been calling me green fields because there's no existing etymology to identify it. Great thanks. I'll do yeah, thank you. Yeah, if you have any further questions, please feel free to reach out or if you're curious to join the team, you know, we always need more people to work on this problem and that's in fact what we're ramping up to do so we really think that this could be released to market very quickly and a lot of the magic does happen with software, so I'm fascinated.
03:35:54
I mean, I I I'm a career and have a consider myself a have a problem and I mean, especially interested in developing tools, you know as, Spectroscopy and all that and helping in you know, a special life science and stuff, you know, I'll probably follow up with you then I'm pretty sure yeah I followed you on a Twitter you can follow me back and you can chat more there but a big part of this was actually in frustration when I was diagnosed with cancer it took me 10 months arguing with seven doctors before they finally believed my diagnosis and got me tested properly, unfortunately by that time the cancer had already spread from my mouth to my throat down to my Neck and my lungs and it was a very difficult journey a lot of invasive surgery part of my tongue was removed both left and right sides of my tongue removed.
03:36:52
I have reconstructive surgery on my tongue that's why I'm kind of the mumbling sometimes as that's hard to speak with only a third of your tongue remaining but yeah, it was very motivating and in fact, you know, kind of like the joke. I was by some people it's a yeah you can't cancer but this must have been the piece of cake or walk in the park kind of thing it was not it was very difficult and I was very.
03:37:17
Fortunate. To have a lot of teams come together that we're able to leverage this technology and it was amazing because I didn't even know that the team had worked on the solely sensor and I brought to them the concept of look. I want to get their raw data from the Soviet sensor because I think this is possible.
03:37:36
So if you want to look up a another paper, there's one by Purdue University about pathogen and detection using Doppler radar and that's probably the early the most recent paper that you can find about similar work to this but the the object. Ation that I have about that article is the guy says always exciting because we're the only ones doing this so we're the first ones doing this oh you're the first one's talking about doing this you want necessarily the first ones so that's kind of something to keep in mind and I'm very aware of that as well because there was work being done instilled by DARPA that was worth being done in this direction from the Russian Academy of Sciences, so there was a lot of teams around the world are racing towards this.
03:38:25
Thank you for the pointers, but I I'll do my goodness read up done, so you you mentioned they the Doppler radar is this is this works on the different physics right so from the your EM proposal, right? Well, they're similar they're related technologies. I'm not gonna go into too much detail because that would be discussion, but if you're willing to sign in on disclosure agreement, I can show you whatever you like.
03:38:58
Okay, okay, thank you yeah, okay. So going back to the so when when you're using the so for example, if you're using the solely device and you're you're sending out something to you know to to. Detect you're sending out the your your signal to detect the nucleotides and and then you're getting something back and you're in your solely sensor is has a sufficient enough array that it's able to decode the the sequence in that correct order but but the question then is is was your measurement do your measurement cause phase changes to to the DNA did it change the DNA or the RN answer in the case of viruses or any virus?
03:39:54
I'm and yeah in desert does measuring itself with this technology change the phase shifts of bacteria and viruses. No no but they do kind of exhibit a lensing effect so if they're alive they kind of respond and it's a dynamic signal so it's a time-dependence signal and it's a deceased of the molecule only itself resonates a little bit but they're decibels of the signal or not sufficient to allow these jumps that's the next step of our research to see if we can make these selected changes ideally it would be amazing if you could like, you know aim a signal circle kind of like cowboy aims a gun you would not.
03:40:40
Have. That one letter that's causing the cancer without having to destroy the cell. It's not clear to us whether you have to destroy the whole cell or whether you can impart energy that can change the internal structure of the DNA of the cell. Okay what you just said was super interesting on a tangent Well what's the difference between a live RNA strand and a dead one.
03:41:05
In terms of one that reacts to one that doesn't Could you say a lot? It's a population. So it's like if it's within a cell and it's able to interact with other molecules and all these gradients then yep, but if it's on its own, it's a little bit different so it's kind of like taking a picture of a city you want to make a movie because then you can see what the city's all about in the same way it's hard to learn to dance if all you're doing is looking.
03:41:31
At pictures of other people dancing. You actually need to look at a video of people dancing. So that's kind of the intuition that I would give but from a first principles perspective, it's a time dependent signal in some cases that is more important.
03:41:50
Yeah, I mean, I'm like still processing that but anyone else wants to jump in time dependent signal that's more important. I'll just pause myself anyone else who wants to talk go ahead.
03:42:02
Again coming back to the earlier question being. So did I encourage using the colder virus as example? That's definitely not a thing or as you mentioned the smoke. So basically a swap or something and if so if there what would be the minimum like signal noise level a you can.
03:42:30
You're asking what the relative noise is or yeah, so again, it's so so for example for the it is it's a so for using the earlier using what I'm a little bit knowledge of this so when you eat and say if it's a smoke detector it someone mentioned there's a the wind issue that if it wind doesn't blow your voice so there has to be you cannot say take it out.
03:43:01
I'll do or just do you know, what life like, you know, A laser attempt temperature is not that robots, right? So there has to be some some sort of condition here. I mean right now you're in a concept profile concept level so so my questions in the way when you you're part of the thing is the cancer protection is that people concepts the viral stuff is already going through the proof of concept.
03:43:35
Oh, okay. Yeah, so so again, this is so so so I guess I know mixed the things together so for for the for the nucleotide but what is the sample again a swap of the sliver? So it can be survivor. I can just swap even the observite sample the mix sample.
03:44:01
So like saliva represents a mixed sample, you can also do detection through the finger so there's I'm sure you're familiar with. Was it non-invasive glucose measuring? It's similar to that. Then that's given that using LEDs, right? So that's true. No, so if you look up the pitch video and you look up the lab that we're working with.
03:44:31
You can find more information about it there. It's the center for intelligent antennas and radio systems at the University of Waterloo Canada. It's okay. I see us. So it seems like you're familiar with arithmetic machine and I was wondering if there's anything like there's you know books of frequencies associated with different, you know diseases and what not I've no idea if it's there is no there is no such database we're in fact building such a database that's one of the exciting things about this.
03:45:04
Awesome, yeah, that's what I was wondering if there was like anything to the yeah once that exists now. Yeah, like our goal is basically to sequence everything on the planet give everyone a wireless genome sequencer and turn the world into like Pokemon with the Pokedex where you can just have a kid.
03:45:22
Put the sensor up to an ant and we could know the sequence information of an Android beef or whatever and then the possibilities are quite profound from a public health perspective with respect to the next pandemic that instead of having to go into this very expensive lockdown, we can just say every day just skiing yourself a few times a day or in fact have passed the scanning in a smart watch and be able to tell you whether you have a certain pathogen or not as you do please stay at home contact health officials, if you then you know, all these things can just be automated and and really stream.
03:45:57
So we don't suffer as a as a species. Oh, so just to be clear there is upon but I just don't have any idea if it's accurate or I would guess it's probably not but um, if you haven't seen it, I can get the coffee. Certainly What would you ask Um in terms of a good frequency database like there is one that the associated with the right machine but I don't have any idea for the accurate.
03:46:23
It was kind of what I was asking. Oh, I don't think yeah. I know I don't think it is unfortunately in genomics the rule is everybody's gave us sucks make your own data. And so that's kind of what we have to do and we're going to be partnering. I think with potentially calc as well to build this up and you know, my hope is that everybody builds on this together and eventually it becomes as synonymous as an MRI machine.
03:46:48
Except it's not millions of dollars it's maybe twelve dollars thirty dollars fifty dollars. Hopefully integrated into every device and then that way we can have a much better chance of fighting these things but the database is quite literally the most important parts like Andrew a standard talks about how we're moving from a model centric industry and machine learning to a data like quality data.
03:47:15
Perspective and so that's kind of the model that we're trying to emulate so on the data so if the database was missing or particular pathogen, then this machine would be able to register it as a pathogens if we can extract the sequence information we can extract what it is, so even a novel virus if you just tell us the sequence information we can extract what signal we predict would be from it.
03:47:48
Of course but if it's if that's sequence was not available it was not known for us and therefore it's absent from the database then you wouldn't be able to detect yes, it's not fair to me, whether that's the case because there are certain patterns that pathogens seem to have in terms that they are characteristics, you can look at work done by.
03:48:11
What's his name? Demos Christopher Dumas CEO MAS from Patel Memorial Institute he was examining how to extract structure or predict structure from random bit information, so Jeff Con 26 s 86 back door. I think it was on cryptographic instruction sets so how can you tell if there's a compromise hardware backdoor within your process or you have to mind this space but how can you tell from the structure alone that there is a problem?
03:48:49
And so by mapping some of these signals to something known as a space filling curve you preserve locality in that locality allows you to make certain estimations and extrapolations of the patterns that emerge so that that's that's what I would refer you to Defcon 26 Christopher Demoss X86 architecture.
03:49:16
I can also put the link into my. Bio here. So deep the other awesome location of this is like you're noticing the situations I think and so this would be yeah completely certainly change the game. Yeah, that's so yeah. There is no like the defaults negative false positive words is very well, it's kind of like if you had a shitty camera sensor you're not gonna take good pictures, so we're just focused on taking really good pictures, but using this of radio waves instead of the physical spectrum.
03:50:04
Yeah, like I blind disease in the test for that like it's it's almost like a 50-50 it's just awful so yeah the people just be so cool for the so many people yeah most of the viruses why disease. Care there is you know some viruses because it's not a clear weather line disease is caused by just one virus or bacteria or combination or confidence or whatever the case may be but some viruses retreat into your lymph nodes and then they only come up or flare up in certain immune response situations that's kind of the the hope or the the thinking that will be able to even make measurements on lymph nodes themselves and be able to tell you.
03:50:55
Kind of what virus data bank you're carrying around so that's the next focal yeah so um, so I the lime inspired you use one thing but there's also the like I had poor co-infections and there's a lot of theories circulating like around biofilms and I'm wondering like when you said an example, if this is something that could also pick up biofilms which is like either these things have a bomb ready together and it's like a shield from your immune system basically yeah so we can actually penetrate the Able to make these kind of sections where the immune system is unable to identify chemically so because these sorts of cloaking technologies that these viruses develop in these bacteria developed sometimes are able to be chemically resistant to a robust but the spectrum never lies as it were so that's the that's the upside that no matter what these things are doing that we'll be able to help you in the system by seeing things that it can't so um, I want to ask.
03:52:05
You more going back earlier to the very beginning of when you jumped in what with with human the human bio rhythm that extends outside the human body or the body with a human violin and maybe that's not the the word for it, but the the biofield. Signature that. Dependence and other things like that, okay, so the time the time depends and in that time dependence may might reveal our DNA.
03:52:36
And but but so in that DNA so what I'm wondering is so that biome I'm also wondering that that bio magnetic field well yeah essentially that's what you're talking about you're talking about DNA RNA right and in in the field itself right yeah yeah, that's the smallest signal that we're kind of pursuing you could pursue smaller molecules, but that's the ones that we're currently focused on.
03:53:01
But the better so you're detecting but so that's that's different from detecting like nucleotides now you're talking about detecting an electromagnetic field and decoding DNA from that that's that's right is a molecule right like a nucleotide chain is just a molecule where each of the chain each of the balls on this chain, let's just say it's a bead to chain each of the balls has a different resonance, so it's basically like it's like how cell phones work that's the best way that I can describe it.
03:53:37
All right so so what we're broadcasting to other people do you think that is so is that enough to actually be causing changes in in the I guess the spatial temporal and phase shifts of other people's DNA what we're what human beings broadcasting.
03:54:01
Rephrase the question sure so so one person's biofield is is being broadcast within the frequency range of another person's biofield are each of those persons biofields powerful enough to change the phase temporal and spatial patterns of of the other part of someone else's DNA and someone else's biopia field.
03:54:27
I would I would estimate that yes, but it's not clear to me because we haven't done those kinds of experiments but I would suspect that there is a certain interaction distance. But it could also be the kind of training that happens when you're with somebody you're both interacting simultaneously you're viewing the other person's responses and in that capture of that sensory information there's some sort of entanglements that occurs in that entanglement allows you to both have the same kind of information perhaps, it's the signal that both you and I share.
03:55:07
Is encoded and then later on one of us accesses that signal that may infer some sort of entanglement response from the other person who has that information encoded but that's that's very speculative. I would say that's kind of along the lines of Sir Roger. Penrose is orchestrated reduction model.
03:55:30
Okay.
03:55:34
So I don't know if they detected pheromones yet that humans are giving off in it because something about like the way that women's cycles line up if they live together and would the mechanism is there. I'm wondering there could be something like that with the fields are overlapping or they're putting up certain energy well every time we're breathing we're trading viruses, like I think famously for every hour that you spend with someone else you're trading about 10,000 it viruses an hour at the lower end in fact.
03:56:02
I would say it's probably every 15 minutes you trade 10,000 viruses, so in a conference everyone is sharing all these virus. Es and if you think of what's actually triggering or what's the result of this kind of sharing is that when the E coli gets into your body and your body raises the temperature equal.
03:56:21
I kind of opens the door for viruses or phages to come in and offer information that can perhaps allow it to modulate its metabolism to stay alive at that higher temperature to continue living and that's kind of I think what happens with viruses in general, so not only would it be electromagnetic, but it's kind of like biochemical warfare that were each of us.
03:56:44
Sent. Thing viruses and other things and these things are allowing our systems to evolve and it's counterintuitive because you would think that you would want to isolate from viruses but viruses are actually what allows the system to evolve. So like damage from ultraviolet rays helps the system evolve damage from viral infections and other things helps us gain information, the classic example is a virus from our very early history for I think brain structures on Earth had a specific function.
03:57:19
Of pruning synaptic connections and in fact the remnants of that virus have become integrated in our genome and in fact we can identify that. Oh look here's the remnant of this skeleton of this virus. It's now part of us and it helps us prune our synaptic connections which if out of whack if there's too much of this kind of activity or not enough represented in our genome you may be you may succumb to what we call schizophrenia because not enough connections are being pruned and you're beginning to make false connection.
03:57:54
S that perhaps diverge some reality so the nature of how information travels between the systems is not only electromagnetic but also via particulates. And is that the art neuronal gene that you're mentioning because I know that was one that's now thought to be viral and it's like integral to memory of I don't remember whether it was synapse pruning but it was definitely associated with higher functioning cognitive ability.
03:58:21
I know it would be I think I know the author or someone's callus at a MIT discuss this. So, Is that the same person the navy but yeah it's the same kind of idea that you know work. What is our DNA it's just the collection of generations of evolution where we even collecting this information and in fact whenever biologists talk about how does an information or how does a system gain information if you know physicists say that entropy is always increasing or how do you reduce entropy to allow for complexity?
03:58:55
It's through these kind of viruses and some estimates put the population ratio of life or complex life to viruses or phages for every one complex. Living organism on earth. We have a hundred trillion viruses or phages to that one. So most of the activity on earth is set to be phage like our virus like so.
03:59:17
Just think of it like if you actually like opened your eyes, you would just see viruses everywhere. That's that's kind of my imagination.
03:59:30
So they also include in the upper atmosphere and I wondered if you've any theories about like the relation between a electromagnetic events in the like the earth's magnetic field and the viral like I've heard theories that like but there were old papers that looked at sunspots and potential correlations with fire says in the theory was that a significant enough magnetic pulse would force those upper atmosphere particles closer to humans.
03:59:59
Um, yeah, yeah, there's all sorts of I think situations like that where the mineralization energy or some sort of standing wave or some sort of stimulus from an electromagnetic field elsewhere can bias certain molecules to form or emerge or whatever like I would think that the cosmic migrated background radiation itself produces certain bias on planets where you know, in addition to the gravitational field of that planet.
04:00:28
In addition to the radiation from its local star and in addition to the, Background radiation you get a certain set of possible solutions for life and that's kind of how I would think about it that it just changes the bias a little bit. So, maybe instead of leaving a billion years, all you have to do is wait a hundred million for these kinds of events to emerge so that complex life for multicellular life to emerge but definitely there's some sort of mechanism there where they played.
04:00:58
It's all basically coupled. I would say that.
04:01:05
Awesome. Thank you so much. Not totally dear all this but do you think that the Moulin controversy is anyway related or like in terms of the yeah the standard bottle being incorrect and I keep going back to the fact that I think our electromagnetic model is poor. I think the electromagnetic model is fine just needs some expansion.
04:01:26
I would say that it's a nice to see some new physics but one in 40,000 is not the sufficient bar for particle physics. They usually demand like one in a billion lights. It just basically a ridiculous amount of standard deviations and the only symmetry with our project is that we're also trying to go for very very high confidence with these sorts of measurements so that you know, you make an announcement but you're saying so far we think this will work.
04:01:56
Now, We're going to perform, you know, several thousand hundred thousand maybe measurements to make sure that what we're saying is accurate so it's kind of an interesting and never thought I'd be performing these this many measurements in a biophysics project.
04:02:21
All right, so I let me just invite everyone else up here and one by Kyle and by Daniel. And invite Sir Ruthy and so I'll reset the room quick. This this room you can you can talk about anything you want but the veins of the main topics that we're floating around are narrow physics.
04:02:43
Brain waves oscillations neural circuits nerve gear AI and I've really enjoyed the last last hour talking to. This talking about the the the technology from I guess I guess let's just say IO from IO, right? And it's a you know, super super cool to speculate about about not just the the neuro oscillation and not just the the brain wave oscillations and neuro circuits on a microscale and within the brain but also what's happening outside of the human body and that's sort of like where we went and in the last hour and and devices basically devices can detect this information and I I am kind of like curious about it.
04:03:34
I don't know if you know the difference between. Power between the. Between obviously you know you know the the the solely sensor but I mean like the actual difference between that and the human biofield in terms of amplitude and power. I don't know if you know I would know that in about two months two months you can ask me we have we hired a few people to actually perform those measurements and it's just a matter of getting the paperwork done and things like that and especially because our profits is going into like level four lockdown or whatever the fuck that means it's just gonna be a little bit difficult.
04:04:15
To coordinate things but definitely something that will be looking at right now it's been kind of easy to make these sort of distinctions but in general like if we wanted to focus on what the differences of the background or ambient field of the human being little pathogens or other molecules.
04:04:38
I'd have to look it up just to tell you just I don't have the graph in front of me, but I'll look it up so that. Next time I have up into you. I'll have the answer. Sweet yeah. I mean just occurs to me there might the answer might be online.
04:04:52
I could probably just google but human bio field or something and. And and then compare that to the solely sensor. Yeah, but we're not necessarily using the solely sensor that's just the the team that we're working with. I don't I don't want to necessarily say that it's the solely sense of those it gets a little bit more complicated but I was I just got like not that not the best look from one of my colleagues a little bit and they were you know, please be careful about what you say, so I've gotten a sperm warning even though I'm, Right yeah.
04:05:32
I mean that yeah, no worries.
04:05:38
But I will say I kind of have like an Elon Musk kind of answer when people ask me like well, you know, we're ready to think of this and why do you think this will work I say like like, you know mascot this story about you know, it's aliens come to earth and they fly in with this little hot thing bouncing off the atmosphere then they parachute and land somewhere in the ocean and they open the hatch and they say there's nothing to fear we come in peace, that would not be really reassuring.
04:06:07
And along those same lines I say, you know aliens come to earth they abduct a bunch of humans and then they get their little chemistry set up and start studying us. I don't think so if they're gonna be traveling they're gonna be traveling lightweight and they're probably gonna be using or modifying or manipulating the spectrum to perform these sorts of measurements or abductions, so I kind of have achieving answer for that and so far at least a lot of the people who are in the field or military related chuckle and And and find it funny but it's it's I'm also half serious.
04:06:45
So yeah so it sounds like researchers like yourself talk a lot to the military about certain projects and military's interests are gonna be a lot different from from you know, civilian interests in terms of terms of what you what you're gonna what you're gonna sell and so any marketplace in a way with the military is just gonna want to buy.
04:07:04
Yeah yeah there is a big difference I am happy that we are focused on the medical aspects at present I did reach out to a lot of my physicians who actually treated my cancer and I asked them what they would I would I asked them like what do you think of this project you know, what if we worked with the military what about this what about that they said, you know, whatever you choose please give back to humanity don't make it something that's locked away that covered somewhere and some warehouse like in the end Jones, do make sure that you know, it's not used to harm people either and in fact, that was one.
04:07:39
Of the moral kind of. I don't know conflicts that have internal conflicts about hey, you know, if I develop this technology that's used to hurt people and I respond to and some people said, you know developed a technology to somebody else's job to regulate it but you know, I went above and beyond to try to get make sure that I wasn't stepping on any toes or fisting off the military we reached out to all of the appropriate government people we notified everyone of the experiments and everything so we've been very open and and explicit about these projects.
04:08:17
And so far the wow it's remains civilian and medical oriented but I suspect there are programs that are doing things differently so in terms of you know, so you may have the ability to mass market as this product they may be in everyone's cell phone it may be distributed all over the world and and people in every country may have this technology and and you know, so I imagine that they there's gonna be a lot of company.
04:08:52
Foreign companies will be trying to reverse engineer what you've done and and and violate copyright laws and patent laws and just you know, try to try to sell this at least you know, at least on the black market. Or just outside US regulation. I mean these kinds of things has happened and but but that's not the point so the point is like okay so so so the other companies illegally reverse engineer and in and and in duplicate and figure out the technology eventually what are what kind of potential risks are we looking at in terms of how how other out basically how foreign military how?
04:09:43
Could they hurt us. I don't want to get so many ways, sometimes it's your responsibility as this would be categorized as so just claimer we're on the watch list now because I said bioterrorism online. I don't know but one of the people. Buying terrorism in a you know talk somewhere and then the next thing I think the same day the FBI showed up in this house and they won't like talk about bioters and new so there are some things to keep in mind but in general a simple scenario is you have a sensor that can tell you what a pathogen is or what a certain sample has in it will constitute that sample just through the process of variability people could find viruses and other things so there is obviously an element of regulation that goes.
04:10:39
Along with this technology and so I've reached out to scholars physicians academics regulatory agencies like the the normal approach is asked for forgiveness, not for permission, well I've gone and done my due diligence to kind of tell everybody about the risks and other things that pertain to this and how I would.
04:11:03
Generate counter measures and things like that, but if a kid samples their grandma saliva and they see that it's some sort of, you know exotic virus grandma here spin into this test tube and now all the sudden somebody has a sample that they can cultivate and that's actually what happened with Ebola and a bunch of people who had Ebola were kidnapped by terrorist groups and there was a lot of concern that they were running these solo camps or Ebola funds where they would have people in this tent and you would just keep.
04:11:38
Bringing in new people to become infected and as you brought in more people the virus who would mutate more and so you were able to accelerate the evolution of this virus to a very deadly scale so that's kind of one of the scenarios that emerges and therefore regulation and surveillance is one of the things about this technology that's necessary so first applications will probably be to be we would trust physicians and dental offices and schools and airports and things like that and then eventually somebody would have.
04:12:13
Some. Thing in their hand but it wouldn't tell you. You know, what kind of viruses is that would be more love to a professional somebody who is accredited and follows regulation, but of course once a genie is out of the bag then it's hard to start to control that so it's the only hope is that you can develop countermeasures.
04:12:36
Yeah but like just to be clear you're building a detector not like a you don't even like it's it's it I like your idea it's attended like a thermometer or something because I already wanted like I have deep concerns already about the way the genetic database is so open like somebody on reddit just like, you know handed out the entire like, you know DNA covet and it's like or whatever that you know, it has a few intentional stones mistakes in it, so it's very difficult to synthesize it so that's kind of something that's scientists don't talk about but they put an intensive spelling mistakes that it can.
04:13:11
Not compile oh so interesting yeah because I worry about like this 3D printing of you know, um, yeah, like really came printing organs and stuff and as that takes off if we have all these like public databases of you know viral yeah, yeah, but like I could take I could take your straw from you thank you you're drinking outside and sequence it right now and know your genetic information that's actually what happened with the CEO of Marvel and somebody known as something timing bombed from Toronto a head hunter and there was this entire controversy.
04:13:46

EDITED

The sensors in your phone and do physics related to type of phone measurement how it's called a PHY PHOX. So I just fired up just see how how many sensors you are carrying around, right? So okay, the manual says acceleration without G with GE gyroscope light blindness in lots measures.
04:17:48
Her momrometer yeah, it gets ridiculous and say they have the you take a measure the echo by the conclusive button echoes. For distance. So it's it's with characters the type of verbs then it can tell so not very yeah accurate but it's proof of concept demonstrate at the education kit is quite cool, right?
04:18:10
So so all these things is I mean, the the one you mentioned that it can you know measure using the router to measure activity and even to the sensitive video the the pulsation is, you know, we are all connected. So, there's no choice. So, that's what that's a no escape.
04:18:30
Yeah, there's no escape but, So, I think this doesn't write off the So they're so constantly discussions on this clock house. It's fascinated by the collective. You know, what is the do we have three wheels, right? So I think I still insist that we do. It should I mean the world I mean tell sign and we are here in a few of us discussing this topic is specifically assigned indicator of that there is a you know, there's a water they're supposed both rises, right?
04:19:03
So it's that's that's the interest is the chase. I mean if, We need to I waste a lot of time, you know back then when I was you know started to to try to escape but I know I just so go with the flow and the yeah anyway, so that's a very fun discussion topic but before you I just look quickly is looked up assaulty videos the it's a very short video.
04:19:28
It's about three minutes, right? So here even though there's a one you showed a technical graph. I saw it as actually the frequency is that about 3G 3G hertz and there's the, You can you can have a very talk. You have a slight not area of difference of the two virus you can discriminate right?
04:19:51
Yeah. Yeah, so so okay, so that's a limited picture of the frequency range though, so that's that's only part of the slide that we were instructed to show we wanted to show more of the slide but we wouldn't allow us to show more of it. Oh sure. So that duck gives me a rough, you know, what what what you're you know trying to do is it's a fascinating can already, you know be able to get a noise ratio signal to noise ratio that it can enable you are able to make it a product but that's that's that.
04:20:27
I think that's you have to overcome a lot of you know work. Yeah, it could be I would say that that's the debatable but that's from last year, so there's we have new measurements that kind of show that the signal is surprisingly robust so consistency of measurements. There is very little variance, so it's it's quite consistent.
04:20:56
Yeah. That's that's all I would say, I don't believe in privacy though. I think it's a human construct. I think we need to move on to a better constructor better idea but privacy is very poorly understood. It is merely the ability to do something autonomously without being interrupted. Secrecy is what most people confuse privacy for.
04:21:22
So secrecy or the ability to conceal information that is up to the person to be able to do. In fact, the NSA has a cheeky answer. They say you're not being spied on. There is nobody watching you because they don't classify a computer passively recording everything as a person.
04:21:42
So there is nobody spying on you because everything is being recorded. That's kind of the the future. So unfortunately more of these things are going away but the only the consolation that I have or the solace that I could find you is that. Regulation and legislation laws. Senators governors members of Parliament all of the world.
04:22:09
These people have to change the laws so that for example your genetic information if it's acquired possibly through the systems cannot be used against you. And in fact, that makes the world a little bit more equitable overall.
04:22:26
Yeah, I'm pretty much love with you on that and so the so ahead of thought yes, so the in terms of the, The terminate around if you look at this way I am I'm a big fan. I spend a lot of time reading up the you know, work actually working collaborating on these history of science, right?
04:22:50
So the history of science is I think this should be a required at a undergraduate level from all the subjects. Many good teachers, they actually going to add the first few lecture have a good introduction of the history of this object which we should wish is very good. So right now, We are given that we are in the mobile mobile.
04:23:15
What an internet connected all connectedness, right? So the level of connectors the the web. So to I I tend to visualize CE metaphor. So all the artificial technology goes the the social construct always the EM waves the radiating through my you know, all the walls of my room and the all goes, you know, all the standard industrial standards and all that turn it around.
04:23:42
So in the for historians, he used to be a very challenging. Work to dig up what this you know original thinker how they actually came up come how do you recall a moment hit up on them and now I mean the work supposed to be soon should be easier, right?
04:24:05
It's we're going into a page or a simple approaching that age that everything is recorded digitally. So, I mean as a matter of seconds you can search and look up what you know restore that and you know, What would happen That that's for me is possible. Thank you. Yeah, I agree.
04:24:30
It is nice that we can record that stuff. Personally, I would have wished for people like Einstein or Fineman to abuse like oculus and have been in the lecture explaining something because then if we had this three-dimensional afford-dimensional recording, you know, space plus time this movie that you can be inside of and move around imagine you could be over the shoulder of Richard finding these explaining something or or situations like that would be very phenomenal.
04:24:58
Right? Eureka moments actually came as a result of participating in the big data of your challenge hosted by welcome trust and epic games back in 2015. So this is an idea what? Can you slowly or challenge and then welcome for us the second largest biomedical charity in the world?
04:25:24
Yeah, they invited my wife and I to visualize and represent genetic sequences and virtual reality and that was actually where a large part of this idea came from when we were trying to understand these sequences and in fact, we stumbled upon tools from the Russian Academy of Sciences. Formed genetic sequences into signal and then did they use what is it had a marred and.
04:25:56
Yeah had more matrices and had about transforms to understand these systems and that naturally led to the question of well, hold on if we're using tools from signal analysis. What if it is a signal? So that was kind of if you want to understand that you read the moment from it.
04:26:12
So that was kind of how simple it was to begin with but it was because we were already involved with all these researchers from Tangerines to from all of the world, so it was it was not as isolated as perhaps the teens, but yeah. The previous thing you were mentioning was that why five can allow for monitoring people and treat their vital signals?
04:26:42
Yeah. Yeah, so technically you can hack a router and start doing that whatever you get it will have the road it is that correct? Uh, you can hack a road or to do that. Yeah, the paper is wifi W. I and the subsequent work shows other aspects as well, so yeah, there's a lot of information with radio waves.
04:27:05
In fact, the way that they trained it was they had a connect camera with a router next to it and the router was sending signals signals were bounced loss, but then they connect cameras also sending signals and getting information back from the first iteration of this technology just stopped to extract skeletal information and so they were able to see skeletons through walls based on these radio waves and then when they, Removed the connect camera so not behind walls but they were able to see like the person in front of the camera and the person on behind the wall and then they took away the connect camera and the machine learning system that they built was sufficiently robust to be able to reconstruct the skeletal form just from the partial signal information from the radio waves along so that's kind of the tricks of the trade as it were.
04:28:00
Wow, that's that's very very interesting. I mean for his buying or monitoring. People that's incredible all right, thank you, thank you. Yeah, my my advice is almost dead. I'm a two percent so if I if I get taken offline or whatever don't think it's the government that came after me, so.
04:28:23
That's a joke just so that people understand yeah we know but we won't we're gonna keep an eye on you, don't worry, okay?
04:28:33
Call stamits who does like mushroom research and he talked about a crazy instant where the heat submitted for a patent that involves, you know, specific, you know medical applications and they didn't approve it and then at some point like black helicopters came and he the you know people in the lab called him and were like there's helicopter circling and he was like, okay innocuently yourselves the fungal spores and like scattering the experiment by that that was so crazy because it's like, you know, he was not intending anything, uh, it only good intentions so just be careful yeah, yeah.
04:29:08
I do try to keep it in in mind be responsible. I'm always like no, no, please no. I'm on your side yeah. I love Canada yeah, so I do try to be told the line as it were in terms of. Message of the allies or the western world but it's also something that I believe in full disclaimer understand now you're listening so there's no reason to go after me, in fact it's better to enable such work and work with scientists, although I do suspect that some of these applications will be classified as it were so some of the things that I did talk about you probably never hear about ever again, so.
04:29:51
I haven't gotten that order to not talk about it so because I feel like I'm mortal in terms of my cancer it could come back and things like that. I would much prefer the technology to be out there so that if I don't get to be able to build it or whatever reason let's add die in a magical car accident tomorrow, at least some of you can rebuild it in fact the cyclical nature of these kind of discoveries is very fascinating because it came up in the 30s and in the seventies and then two thousand and each time people tried to make certain progress in this but were limited by the technology of their time.
04:30:26
And so that that's kind of also it's it's a very fortunate coincidency. I mean, there's a there's like a broad sort of. It's like a it's like a bright so like this is like general advancement of technology but there but but in terms of imaging technologies we're we're that we're having simultaneous innovations in medicine technologies and every industry in every science is it's not like you you're just talking about like today this is we're just talking about one thing but there's so like there's so many advances happening simultaneously in terms of imaging.
04:31:09
It's just amazing and they're all they're all those like they're they're all have there's all like commonalities they're all basically like, you know coming down to vape in a in a vague in a vague way there's you know the way I think of of, you know, when you are talking about collecting data with an array and then and using that right to figure out what's what I mean that, You know like I compared to EIT in terms of like it is kind of like tomography maybe I mean without it without knowing your secret sauce, it's it sounds like it's kind of like tomography and I would just say like that is it's like so we have tomography type of technology that is is related to you know, the the there's there's the four it was basically the projection theorem for your transform projection theorem then there's like, you know photogrammetry, you know, if you're gonna do if you're gonna like turn a 3d image and to a Biology and into into 2d slices that's the projection for etherium but then if you're gonna turn 2d slices from it from a camera into a 3d model that's photogrammetry and then and then we have like so now we have volumetric video and we have you know, we're doing we're doing semantics segmentation we're figuring out all the different like points that belong to the the different.
04:32:38
That belonged to that object in a 3d space has been captured with a camera but then but now we're like talking about okay, well, you know, we're gonna win a shine light into the brain with functional air for a spectroscopy and combining with ultrasound and basically reverse the refraction of of light which is holography which which is in but then but then we're gonna sort of like but then that but then like the technique of of like of of holography has to involve taking scans from many different locations, so again, we're coming back to tomography.
04:33:13
And even like when you talk about like, you know what they do with MRI with the fusion tensor imaging and that that that's also like there's an analog back to tomography it's just like because you need to capture the the the brain for multiple different angles and and so those are so obviously diffusion tension imaging is a little bit old is older but but but yeah, but it's like it's the same principle yeah the same principle of basically like the four-year transport that projection slice for your transform.
04:33:47
And it's causing this massive innovation everywhere all at once and it may be people were thinking about this a hundred or two hundred years ago, maybe sounds like it but but but now the the technology is allowing all the different possible variations to and even stuff like that was never imagined before to start to happen.
04:34:14
Yeah I mean we talked a little about the difference of the history of science and one of the like larger arts that I see I think in terms of the advances in optics and the way that that's impacted us is a species. There's like this weird relationship there with like um, so you can I don't think because you, you know the invention of the telescope and then of the microscope and now the like screen and the way that we're basically like we've changed the way that we view the world and the like spectrum that we have access to and like that every time that's happened that's like fundamentally revolutionized like all the rest of our technology.
04:34:55
Yeah, yes point the the we we're I mean, it's just dumb funny. It's you know, one one thing and reflect on that think about it also. In terms of you know way of what I mean, this was all how I see you know the ancient thinkers how I mean, I start to appreciate them, you know.
04:35:24
Even more you know, given that they are so rudimentary in a way now so so promoting Elena, I mean, it's a better hopeless recipe. So stole them later able to point to the way, you know, it cannot be perfect and no one is name mistakes and many places but still.
04:35:55
I mean a human evolution in the evolution enabled that the human much more than our close relatives with a new coordinates and stuff. I mean, we're the potential lights still. I mean something in the air and people like nowadays come contemporaries like. Alamosky and you know all these leadership will use Microsoft and on the Apple phone and then it's really up to so this is it's it's ice for me.
04:36:30
I mean, it's still open always, you know, I wide open and see to touch on the connecting back to Earth. I'm already an early sharing bye. I'll data. I I had a similar. Worries before but I mean even right now, I mean, I'm for different and for me, I mean the way I visualize the you know, the the insured I think I wouldn't worry that much because so there's no it doesn't.
04:37:08
I mean for me I try to become more vigilant of you know, what the boundary of self versus the exterior, that's right. Now, that's what we can do, but that there's a maximum limit of. Do otherwise we cannot find time to work, right? So the different cultures is like a different pyramids, right?
04:37:29
This type of tolerable adult. But so I mean, There's a common language when we call mathematics and science, right? So there's so if so for me, I mean, yeah, I see it that's supposed to be one. I'm not saying anything religious but I think like Einstein said when they ask in you know, if you're religious he says, I have some sort of a god but it's I wouldn't call it a really religion.
04:37:58
I eat certain natural.
04:38:03
Anyway, so the, So the,
04:38:13
So it's also I mean, I think it's exciting and right now I mean, there's a knowledge in the digital divide somehow. For for a few of us here. I mean student. S lean on the luckier side. So what contribution I mean with a clubhouse, I think it's definitely contribution right so vibrations that we.
04:38:41
On the similar frequency to resume and maybe something will come out of it. So making a positive contribution. So I think that's a what I'm you know, in terms of spectroscopy, I mean, the high energy physics just recent days there's a so there's some you know new experiments from the formula.
04:39:03
So it might be new particles to be discovered and this for so it's never ending so so if but, Also the other day. I mean for me I I think the I don't know what the so I will your in water do I think while I do is it's great.
04:39:23
Has a great computer science and I think physics. Group and that's so the what? So many of the recent days of Nobel like a work physics and chemistry most many of them can connect back to any I should convey the contribution to. Biology, so be it tools of a new measurement for the.
04:39:55
Sequencing. I think this year probably is not a. Is probably good. What was her name? Sorry. Tip the family for the MR in the vaccine, right? Yeah the lady, you know.
04:40:23
We're making group programs. I think. Yeah it's surprising how many scientists will like things together more than Apollo and Manhattan Project combined so it was really weird to see like every lab that could pivot to covet do so and the only thing that I've been saying for some of these innovations sometimes it's for surveillance or persistence any reasonable any reasonable person would have long ago quit and that's kind of what I would say about my project that any cell like I even got last out of the classroom saying that I'm crazy and all these.
04:41:03
Things that thankfully I went back recently and you know, I did like the good hunting thing. I was like, how do you like them apples and? Stuff like hey look I got some results that we're not trivial who's laughing now so good but unnecessary but that's kind of the the friction that you get when you're doing crazy things and it's difficult sometimes to get people to take you seriously even now people like on Clubhouse outright called me like a liar and I'm like yeah, okay.
04:41:36
I'm telling you the data is there and you know, there's money behind this and it's not just me drinking my own Kool-Aid, so but the thing, Is like um, like. It's like to even even like think about this right this is like this is there's there's some. You know, it's just like this like there's there's.
04:42:01
What you've what you've described has a level of complexity to someone who was who I I think that that someone who was a messing around, you know wouldn't wouldn't you know, I hope wouldn't have wouldn't have the that much knowledge that you have so it's just. You know at it's like what you're you're you're talking about things are like novel concepts, you know and you're in you really understand what you're talking about that's that's what you know and in that you just like you that there were in in your like the you've got to ask me anything happening right whereas like, you know, if someone was making up a story they would be pushing back against, you know questions and stuff like I think but I you know, I'm not an expert but I just, Thank you.
04:42:49
I think it would be hard for for I mean, I guess because I guess you should at the beginning you had your fear was that you would be compared to. To thrown out so whatever whatever her name was yeah, yeah, what do you think it's gonna is gonna be um, the way that you're gonna.
04:43:07
Show people that you're you're because I mean I guess so like you're saying there's gonna be a small percentage of people who are gonna say well if someone has a new a new technology that's really amazing we should automatically be suspicious well what what's the strategy yeah to get a competing lab to evaluate it, so we've talked to investors who already have affiliations with counts that can once we finalize some of the designs and aspects of this device, we'll be shipping it off to them to give us a grading like to give us.
04:43:43
The mark. Or whatever you know to evaluate the device and that's kind of how we're going about it to be very robust very open and collaborative because this project isn't possible if you just want to build it on your own the very instruments that we use now are quarter of a million dollars just to be able to capture the signals and the question of can we miniaturize and reduce the cost of these kind of circuits that's just an engineering question, so it's it's not even a question of of if but when and we've been very open about the the time.
04:44:18
S between one and three years you can expect some sort of consumer product and in fact, we hope to have a prototype done by the end of the year that is self-contained and not using industrial grade equipment, so that's the that's the hope that the first device will cost anywhere between 300 and 3000 dollars and that will be the cost of the prototype itself, so when you mask manufacture something like that, you can reduce the cost and that's kind of what I'm focused on now, it's kind of weird that you have the hustle very similar.
04:44:53
To how Elon Musk kind of started Tesla so that's kind of been one of the inspiring things or the things that I've been following is how Elon Musk went about creating a Tesla stuff even though I don't agree with a lot of things they said about Coventry but yeah, yeah.
04:45:08
I'm okay so so that's a fair enough point but I'm the that was the whole like that that was that was the promise of magically basically that they that they they said we have this device that it's super expensive and it produces amazing augmented reality holographic experiences and We're gonna we're gonna shrink it down and and you know from being like a multi-million dollar device and into being something that that is affordable to the everyday consumer and that was basically their proposition to it, you know to investors is that they're gonna do the deliver this magic and a portable package and of and then everyone got really mad at them temporarily because for a while because the device they delivered that was portable didn't have any of the capabilities the big of the big, you know, multi-million dollar machine that they were showing off before it was is very much like a copy.
04:46:03
Of the Hollands and and then but that but now I guess you know, we're waiting to see what they're they're coming out with a new one this this winter and maybe though have showers that they've made some advances but but it's very it's very much complicated you you promising to turn something that costs millions of dollars into you know, something that is is $50 or whatever and you say it's just an engineering problem, well, sometimes those engineering problems are a little bit harder than than you know, the new then you might expect but So anyway that that I think that that's where you'll hit some some some people will be wanted to raise that point but anyway.
04:46:44
Yeah so various intellect like areas of variation of this sense that we have now that is about $500 we have variation that's about $250,000 but we want to make one that's in this range so that we can actually scale things down properly in the way that we want so some design decisions change but we're already in the ballpark and just reducing that by by 10 is is not that it's not that big of a leap it was a huge leap to go from 250 k to about a few thousand but the, Ta thousand to maybe tens of dollars is.
04:47:24
Surprisingly feasible. I was not expecting it to be this feasible so. Yeah.
04:47:33
Okay these I just can't see where like you're part of the long tradition like if you want to think outside of the box you'd be kind of outside of the box and like I think Tesla's professor told them that um, you know, his devices were impossible perpetual motion machine right and and I had the same instinct that you did like, um, once I recovered I you know went back to my doctor and wiggled my fingers which he said, I'd never be able to do you know, so yeah, yeah fundamental about like if you're gonna make something that's outside the norm it's because you're already free-thinking, you know, so yeah good on you.
04:48:07
I did have another question. So earlier someone said that they basically saw that your device was in terms of the potential harms that your devices the potential harmony device could detect the one of the things he said it could detect make it too easy to detect harmful viruses in the environment and then and then that that could be a big issue but but but basically, it was a detection mechanism and and so what I wanted to drill down on is basically is it more than just the detection mechanism are is it is a trike is it a tricorder that can.
04:48:43
I make some DNA changes to you know itself not the current model, so the energies are purposely only for imaging or detection identification not for modification that is the harder problem but in essence I think the modification and editing is not impossible it's just a matter of the relative energies like if you look at the movie Elysium or they have that tanning bed and people laid down and it's scanned your body and all that stuff that's like one of the first presentations.
04:49:18
That I did to the engineer so I was like this is what we're aiming for this is this is the goal everyone but right now we're here and so it was kind of a fine thing because everyone chuckled but then they were like yeah, but that's true we're actually not that far away from it, but it is a matter of like regulation so even if you were to detect like a pathogen, there would probably have to be some sort of coordination with the government that okay when the sensor goes off and it detects this thing that it pings the local public health agency that you know is able to at least keep.
04:49:53
Track. This stuff. So unfortunately, the monitoring is is one mechanism that's going to erode privacy but privacy and exchange for peace of mind. I don't mind. So, Quickly. I already did the movie ELI SIUM is other one. EELY SIUM. Yeah. Alicium are the medical bed or met day. Met bed little video on YouTube, you can watch that so that's kind of how I get the engineers.
04:50:32
So, okay, I'll meet to do but away go ahead with a yoga but the after that I I would like, To ask the room and also Eric that a what the what's what's your comment on, you know, your technology fall in a category of spectroscopy, but a what do you think the material wise you know, say in nano or macro that if what's your what's what's your?
04:51:12
Comment on the you know, the fast-paced progress on the Indian situation well contribute to to the field that you're interested. Yeah, you know, I tried and gallium arsenic contributed to the expanded spectrum capabilities for detections so without those advances of those substrates this would not likely be possible.
04:51:40
Okay, so that's the LEDs huh. Going I tried is a replacement for silicon that oscillates in the terahertz range, so. Oh, tell your talking about a three and five. Okay, so some some some people will call it the three three five. Yeah, I mean third generation but those are mostly for power right so high temperature high voltage sensitivity, so.
04:52:15
If there's also sensor that you can look up colder rights sensor RYDERG and it's an RMI variety yeah so that sensor came out last year US Army infectious. The US Army communications division developed the sensor to cover large band of the spectrums that are able to do up to I think a hundred gigahertz with only one antenna or one sensor, so that's quite impressive and they can expand it to about it.
04:52:50
So you don't need multiple sensors or modules to cover the entire spectrum. So there's been a lot of advances that have. And helps okay so if we're talking about we're talking about you know, so there's the account of 3d printing and the concept in Star Trek there's the the concept of basically the replicator right where you can make any food right so so let's say that let's say that theoretically you've got you've got the you know, it's it's 50 it's I don't know if it's 20 years from now or 50 years from now 100 years from now.
04:53:25
I've got the the next the next generation version of your technology that you're working on right now and it's and it is good. We're not just detecting anymore we're changing things and so like we we can we can point this this at at a dish and into and change and maybe change the flavors of dish change the smells of the dish change that but then we're talking about DNA, you know, maybe you could you could like instead of a drug therapy you could just enter you could introduce the the you know, some sort of some sort of, Effect which is equivalent to the to the drug right yeah, yes there's actually a famous episode of Star Trek Voyager where to go take brings like this little device over to show captain Janeway and he says my ancestors used to used to take psychedelic drugs, but now we can just do it with this device and he'll just hand over the device and it allows him to start tripping with her and so that's kind of ugly enough a lot of these science fiction things have inspired a lot of these scientific advances, so I suspect that is also possible.
04:54:34
And but so like um in if we're gonna like if we're gonna if if I if we're talking about like just a matter of like so I guess my question is like just in terms of using the EM frequency range theoretically to just change the the amplitudes and the the the frequencies and the in the phases of RNA and DNA how what's the upper bound on the kinds of changes we can we can cause what what what can we change exactly and maybe the limit?
04:55:09
S of that. Yeah, I think we can make like we can just we can obviously destroy the the the sequence the modifications. I suspect are in line with the sensitivity of the detection so if we can detect single nucleotide or single letter changes, we can probably make single letter changes but that's just conjecture at this point.
04:55:34
Okay what I'm saying is like so like a single so type of single letter we're talking about a like if you know a nucleotide could be like the letter the letter G right and so how would you so are you talking about change in the letter G to like the letter C is that the kind of thing changing you're talking about yeah yeah and and so that removing a completely or whatever at or removing it completely okay, so basically like like destroying just that one part of the sequence.
04:56:03
But then repair mechanisms within the cell can allow the DNA to be reconcile reconstituted, so there's a bacteria that they discovered in the arctic something. It's a very ratedviation resistant or radiation tolerant organism that they bombarded with the ionizing radiation the genome gets like splattered across the inside of the cell, but within 24 hours the DNA spontaneously reconstructs itself.
04:56:33
So there's something about the lining of the membrane and all these other things that allow, S the structure information to be preserved within the confines of the cell wall and or the bacterial wall and that allows it to rebuild itself. So similar mechanisms that if you only make small little changes here and there those can be fixed almost similar to run time.
04:56:58
I suspect or what I would call like at fixing at runtime. Well, I mean, like so like the polymerase right is like a spell checker. Yeah, and it fixes errors that happen but um. Okay, so I so this question is like okay, so the difference between a GFC and a C in terms of nucleotides is that is it really just a matter of like.
04:57:27
Like a like a difference in in phase or difference and like a temporal pattern like I don't know, how would you how it or or is it like like the because yeah converting one to the other so I'll go ahead and pause. Yeah yes So anything not only differ a little bit but the actual shape of the curves across the entire spectrum are quite different.
04:57:55
They're almost orthogonal sets so you can almost make a wavelet set from the different shapes meaning that they're very amenable to orthogonality and a particular kind of space so you could set up a certain kind of metric where these different signals could be considered orthogonal and then you can perform very quick calculations to know whether you're listening to Guanine.
04:58:20
A cytosine or uracil or whatever. So we're talking about like with with EM frequencies, we're changing the we're changing the shape or the orientation or both. Just just the the shape of the frequency response changes based on the different molecules, so the guanine lava different response from agony. I'll try to pull it up tomorrow if you're on here or whatever next time on I'm on here.
04:58:50
I'll make sure to have a screenshot of the different shapes of the nucleotide so you can kind of see how oddly similar and oddly weird they are. But but at the root of it, we're changing one type of molecule to another type of molecule with an electromagnetic because they're exchanging so they're always there's always letters floating around.
04:59:13
So all you're doing is creating a preferential. Gradients that wants to have this letter instead of that one, so first you set up a gradient that knocks it out and then you set up a gradient to replace it just that that spot so it's. Okay and so a gradient is we're talking about an ionic gradient like an EM field gradient.
04:59:38
Water both they both react to one another right so depending on the ambient. Depending on the whole solution you can have certain so it is kind of specific sometimes but you can tune in kind of like how you tune in with radar but I am getting a really tired now so I'm gonna have to call it a night it was actually down to one percent now so if it's actually it's actually midnight so we're so where I'm also signing off and I want to thank everybody for coming and we'll do this very often so have a good night everybody thank you very much.
05:00:14
I owe and good night everybody yeah, thank you make a thank. You so yeah everyone else take care of everyone see safe have a good night.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio