=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0318y Simulation Part 2A Rotations Universe
First recorded: 2021-04-12T07:47:05.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/ecca9405-6669-4f1f-99ac-ecbeafb4c9c4
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
But yeah, I guess that's the thing. I get one transformation of sound happens when it hits the wood, for example. It becomes mechanical energy, but then that mechanical energy has to be converted into electrical energy in order for it to be transduced through the rest of the tree to hit the roots and the fungi, for example.
So that's where I'm, like, sort of stuck.
Is there, like, action potential in the tree?
Action potential as far as?
Like, just ions moving through.
I really only know this as, like, a physical force concept.
See how, like, the mechanic, I guess, quoted.
Thanks to this in other people's presence, they still don't believe what's happening, because it kind of defies your idea of what the tree is.
Can I?
But I think what I'm kind of trying to get at is that you have softer inside, and so the softer wood allows it to be echoed and amplified further, and the hardwood is...
You muted yourself, I think.
Oh, I was done.
Oh, okay.
Can I ask a...
I just had a quick question, was I was sort of half-listening.
Were you talking about, like, an actual tree, a tree made out of fungus, a dendritic tree that's part of a, you know, like a neuron?
Like, I was sort of half-listening, but it's really interesting.
The functionality of the neurons, the similarities, because, I mean, if you think about it, if the universe is, if the universe uses physics homogenously everywhere,
then the patterns that we see are not just visual, you know, happenstances.
They are, they very well can be representative of the same functionality.
So, just like the fungi are actually, like, considered the neural network of the forest, what I'm trying to see is the exact functional components that basically do the same thing in the same pattern.
So, I'm curious, has it been in, like, really fine or really precise recording equipment and recorded changes and fine temporal scale, like, electrical changes?
Sorry, can you repeat that?
So, I'm assuming the fungi connecting the roots is the mycelium, right?
And so, I was wondering if there has ever been somebody who can kind of go in and find currents in the mycelium that are transmitting the electrical signals with, like, whatever fine recording equipment, you know, that needs to be done, used with.
Oh, well, it's actually long been known that fungi and mushrooms carry electricity.
So, that's kind of, like, that's been around for, like, I don't know, like, 80 years or something.
Um, but I try to record, uh, as far as, like, the sound going into the root systems, but it's really hard, and you don't want to damage the root systems in place, because every time you break the soil, you're actually, like, you know, releasing more carbon into the atmosphere, which isn't great.
So, um, yeah.
A couple thoughts.
One is, um, I guess everything in the cosmos is part of the electromagnetic spectrum, right?
So, we would expect electricity, uh, to be everywhere and to be, to be part of any sound signaling.
But I think that, like, also, like, you know, when you, if you, if you strum a guitar, then, um, you know, there's, there's sound vibrating throughout the guitar, but we, we wouldn't necessarily describe that as electricity flowing through the guitar.
But, but in a sense, um, you can't separate the sound from electricity, because everything is the electromagnetic spectrum one.
Um, but, but also I was thinking, I'll just stop there for a second.
Um, is, sound is, sound is made by movement, right?
And so, it's like a layer.
So, you need movement to, to create any type of electricity.
So, sound is an inherent, inherent property of electricity, regardless of, like, if we are cognizant of the sound, it's just an inherent property of, of electricity.
Um, I don't think sound is, like, light, where it's part, it's just part of the electromagnetic field.
Sound is, um, sound requires air, and it's, uh, so acoustic vibrations is just the mechanical progression of rarefied air, uh, and compressed air, uh, moving through space.
And, and so, uh, and, uh, and I don't even think that's going to be enough to create static electricity.
So, uh, you know, it's, there's no, so electricity is movement of electrons, uh, across a medium, you know, usually, uh, a metal, something that's conductive.
So, any conductor, uh, air is, like, one of the worst conductors.
It's basically a giant capacitor, where no electricity can move through, or very, very little, and, uh, and so, there, if sound is making something, turning something into electricity, there needs to be, like, uh, a sort of transducer that's responsible for that.
But sound on its own, uh, does, does not, uh, create electricity.
It does not move electrons, you know.
It's just, it's a mechanical pressure.
Uh, I mean, that is, that is, it vibrates electrons, not move them.
I'm really just looking for the, the, you know, I super appreciate, like, all, all the other input, but, but I, I've basically proven everything in my research already.
Um, and so, so it's kind of like, like, you know, it's, it's fine to, to analyze it from your perspective.
But, like, I can, I can show you how it works.
Like, it's not, it's, like, it's, it's a, it's a thing that actually functions.
Oh, no, no, no, we're just, like, we're just trying to, like, understand, because it's so novel to us.
You know what I mean?
That's pretty cool.
It's, like, it's, like, it's, like, hard to wrap our minds around it, but we're just, like, trying to figure it out.
It's kind of, like, if you think about it in just terms of a feedback system, it's, like, just think about biology for a second.
I know.
Um, so we're, like, okay, there's this many animals in the forest, and as they sing their little songs and do their little things in the forest, um, the tree picks up their sounds and is turning that into electricity.
That electricity helps to make it rain so that more plants can grow to actually, um, keep those animals alive in the forest.
This is, this is a system of balance and feedback, so it's, like, hey, guys, how many of you are out there?
Oh, that many?
Okay, we're gonna need more plants.
All right, so rain, we need rain?
Okay, let's do the rain thing.
Um, so, I mean, it's, it's kind of, like, super simple, but, and I mean, I know it's hard to, like, picture or, like, kind of understand, but, but it, but it's also, like, I feel like it's also simple, but that's, you know,
everybody feels like that when they're doing something, um, well, I guess, I guess, like, as far as the comparisons between neuronal signal transduction or the conversion of a mechanical stimulus into an electrical activity,
I don't think the comparison can be made as far as, like, as far as, like, we know it right now from the explanation, just because we have no idea, like, in a tree, if that, you know, the vibrations are somehow converted by any sort of mechanotrans, like, I guess it's to say mechanosensitive channels into an electrical current.
Um, so I think that part is completely different between the two systems, um, but yeah, and then also the fact that, um, whenever you're propagating a signal, typically you're opening up channels along the way, which within sort of this biological field that you're describing, it doesn't seem like that's the case either.
So I think, I mean, I've never, I've never, uh, patched a mushroom and hit a tree.
So, you know, if I, if I, uh, is there any references or publications that have a deduction of the energy from the tree to the fungi?
No, nobody has ever thought that trees are doing anything.
Okay, so this is, this is anecdotal, well, I mean, it hasn't, it hasn't been published or anything.
I was just saying, so at this point, it's, it's still a theoretical hypothesis.
Um, so, uh, going back to what people said earlier, um, it, it, it, it's not really necessary if, if, if the electricity is, uh, good, a strong enough pulse for the sounds, if the sound being converted into electricity is strong enough.
Um, like, for example, in the, in the case of electrical impedance tomography, uh, you don't need to amplify the electricity at all for it to flow through neural tissue or through a tree.
Um, it is, it, what might, what would, uh, happen if the electricity signal was strong enough is that, uh, it'll flow through, you know, different materials at different rates.
And, um, and, um, and that's sort of like how, uh, electrical impedance tomography works is you can work out the, the, the images.
So you could, um, use electrical impedance tomography specifically to, um, to, to measure, um, in, in, in, in terms of understanding how sound is affecting trees.
Um, um, that would be, and if trees are generating electricity, so EIT, you could use that to, um, to prove that trees are, are turning sound into electricity.
But, um, another thing that I think is that if it's true that the sounds of animals in the forest are, are, are, are causing trees to create rain, uh, you could play music.
You could play the sounds of animals to trees and see if that triggers rain.
Um, and, uh, and then just, like, measure if the frequency of rain increased that year because you were, you were playing, um, lots of, uh, sounds of animals.
And then you could, you could prove your hypothesis.
It, it is specifically, like, biology.
Like, the, each animal in this forest system is eating the plants in this forest system.
So it has all of the minerals and the elements from that specific forest system.
So when it sings, it's, it's not, it's not just, you know, sound.
It's also everything, every mineral that it had collected from the forest and from living in, in that forest.
Um, and so it, it is specifically related in that way.
Um, and I did try, you know, a recording and it didn't work.
Um, but I will say that, um, again, please don't go singing to trees because it's not, uh, it's not our place.
But I did do it.
Um, and what happens is, um, you end up seeing, uh, little, like, little puffs of clouds start to appear.
And that's just what's happening.
Even if that, you know, you may think, well, oh, well, that was your, like, thing that you saw that's not empirical.
But that happened every time.
It will happen every time.
Um, so it's not, this is how this works.
And, um, but anyway, sorry.
It's very, it's certainly the, uh, most interesting thing I've heard this week.
I think at this point I remain skeptical, which is totally fine.
We're scientists.
We're skeptical about everything.
But I think until unequivocal evidence has been proven, I'm going to remain skeptical on that one.
But it is an interesting thought.
Things in other networks and just relating in a broad sense, like, how things are similar to each other.
Yeah, definitely.
I mean, certainly, uh, interesting to, even within, like, the same system.
So, in this case, like, um, the same organism.
You see how some, uh, there are, like, similarities across different, uh, I guess, like, different organs and, like, how they work.
Um, and that's sometimes helpful for, like, um, furthering research.
Yeah, certainly, uh, it was a mental exercise, which is good.
I couldn't understand, like, at first, like, oh, wait, hang on.
Now it makes sense.
So, F, are you, uh, are you doing more recordings this week?
Um, wait, I just messed up my name because I was trying not to use my last name.
So, uh, everybody else knows you F.
Yeah, and now I'm just used to everybody calling me F.
Uh, but, uh, yeah, yeah, uh, so we had, so we had, like, eight cages going, and there's, like, finally one litter, and we used, so we, me and the, and the postdoc were, like, sharing these mice.
Like, like, one day I would slice, one day he would slice in his plane, one day I would slice in my plane, and we would just, like, be taking the, the leftover slice and just getting a couple extra cells because they're only in five mice.
But, uh, we used more, and then I was gonna save, it's, like, older now, and it's past P30, so I was just gonna, uh, I have, like, one more, uh, good data collecting mouse, and then, uh, I'm gonna use the rest of the week for just, uh, you know, practicing how fast I can get my slice.
I haven't sliced in a while, like, 2020 was basically, like, dead for me, so, uh, I need to get back in the swing, I think, so, so I'm just, you know, getting rid of, denoising my rig, et cetera.
Uh, how old, uh, can you record up to for?
P30's great for me, I mean, uh, Thursday I recorded from a P700 mouse, and I got two cells, it was just way harder.
Yeah, see, we, after P10, that's about our limit, so we gotta get the brain stems out of, like, P5 to P...
That's, that's small.
Yeah, it's like a, yeah, it's a fine motor controls.
Uh, uh, I wish that we could record from P30 mouse.
I was gonna say, I was gonna say, uh, um, so, one, one thought for, for Nick was, is that book, um, uh, Rhythms of the, I think it was Rhythms of the Brain?
Maybe that might not be the right title, but...
Yeah, Rhythms of the Brain by Buzak.
Yeah, is that relevant to your work, Nick? I was just curious.
To be honest, um, and I just heard about it through Clubhouse, but potentially...
I heard about it through my advisor, it's, it's legit, it's, it's, like, the best.
I'll have to check it out, yeah, I mean, I've, I've heard it, but I, I honestly, I haven't read it, so I don't know.
Is it just, is it, like, what kind of rhythms is it looking at, like, uh, large-scale brainwave activity, or all the way down to, like, single-cell type of rhythmic activity?
I think it's, I think...
I don't think he goes...
Oh, sorry. Uh, I haven't read the whole book, I've only read, like, through the first chapter, but he, he definitely opens it up, talking about large-scale stuff.
I don't know how much he's gonna get into resonance, but he really takes a, like, approach of explaining how it's generated.
So he's definitely gonna cover all the bases, uh, you know, he talks about oscillators, and, like, uh, what's needed for oscillation.
I ended up, like, citing that in my grant, that book in my grant, like, a bunch of times, because it's just explained so, it's explained so well.
Oh, interesting, yeah, let's take a look, because, yeah, my field of study is coined as rhythm generation, so...
You should probably take a look at that.
Uh-huh.
Sorry, I can't get it.
Take it outside of the box of the, uh, persistent sodium-bursting cells and, uh, recurrent synaptic excitation.
Yeah, that author has two books, and I'm, I'm currently reading them both, um, but I, I, I, I haven't, I can't speak to the whole book, but I think they're, I think he's trying to cover the topic of oscillations from micro to macro.
Give me the spark notes.
Sure.
Um, I was gonna say sure, but I was, my mute, my mute was on.
Give me a second, let me just pull it up, and I'll, I'll refresh myself.
My research field is, uh, on stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes, modeling heart cells, and, and we do research on the gravitational 0G conditions to, to explore the impact of 0G on, on the cardiomyocytes.
I'm very excited about, uh, your, uh, guys, uh, discussing about neuroscience.
Um, I was wondering whether you guys would like to, to, to, to be a part of a science communication group, uh, where maybe you will explain your, um, neuroscience research in a very simplified way to the common public.
Like, uh, so that would be really great, like, uh, so I was wondering whether you have some, some spare time to, to join the club?
Sure.
Sure.
Absolutely.
And then, yeah, what's the platform?
Yeah, that's the science communication platform where we, we, uh, uh, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, uh, it's in the clubhouse itself.
Uh, so basically you have to just, um, explain, um, uh, your, like, uh, research area or something, you know, very closely.
For example, uh, yesterday we discussed about, uh, immunity and vaccine, how it works, um, like very funny way.
So people have their queries and they could understand it and people who are not associated with, uh, biology or biological terms.
So we are planning, uh, monthly ones now since, uh, we could not able to gather a lot of, uh, audience so far, but, uh, maybe slowly we will.
And, uh, yeah, the, the, the topics which we are so far covering, like gene editing, stem cells, then vaccine yesterday.
So I was wondering who can, like, help me with, uh, the club, maybe that would be really nice.
But when we explain them, giving example of some movies, some kind of correlate what exactly happening and they enjoyed it.
And they get involved and to, which I also believe, and it's a very nice thing.
They should, public should interact with science.
And that's a, that's how we, we made a club there.
So, so if you guys, um, this would be really, uh, great.
That's just, uh, something to shoot us, uh, invite, I just, uh, but Scott, how do lawyers work on my soft skills?
Um, so maybe, so maybe I can help with that.
So, like, I mean, I have, I have a ton of experience as a, as a moderator in terms of, uh, um, you know, basically over 10 years of, of moderating, uh, groups and podcasts and stuff.
And, and, uh, it, it is to keep the audience's interest and to keep the speakers interested.
You do have to sort of like, um, if someone starts to talk, starts to take things off topic, um, whether it's pseudoscience or just off topic really period, then, um, you've got to sort of, uh, you know, maybe do like a reset and, uh, and move people back to the audience.
If, um, if the conversation is not relevant to what people came for.
It's, uh, it's an art.
I tend to be a little bit just, uh, caution if anybody starts diagnosing things or giving suggestions for medical advice or getting way too pie in the sky.
I just kind of come in and say, uh, I agree that phenomenon might be occurring for mechanisms that have been unmeasured.
But at this time, I think we're still, you know, skeptical to the ideas.
So let's keep it more towards the, uh, the known facts for the sake of the audience that may be, uh, not in the research world.
But yeah, I definitely want to get into mechanisms.
So part of my thesis is actually, uh, generation of gamma oscillations from PV and turn around, fast-walking in and around.
So, so definitely would be interested in any, any sort of neuro talk.
So I followed, uh, yeah, I'm following everybody here.
So, so, so yeah, interested.
Yeah.
It's, um, um, it's really, um, um, like, um, uh, some physicists also, they explain about black holes.
It's very funny way, very, uh, like, uh, engaging.
Um, I mean, I mean, um, uh, usually we used to do in Europe, uh, we go to church, we go to a different common place where the publics are like really, you know, really, really, really have no clue.
And they have their own perception about something.
I mean, for example, one is stem cells means they used to think maybe killing, uh, the gene editing, they used to think, think, uh, it's a dangerous and it can create some, um, human animal hybrids.
So these kinds of perceptions we have to break and we have to be very polite, uh, I mean, it's extremely polite to be because they have a perception that scientists are quite arrogant.
Um, so we, we, we, confusion with so much credence.
So do you, when you say we, like, are you representing some organization or something when you claim this, or are you talking as Fred, as a person when you raise this question?
Like, okay, like there's, there's hypothesis that, okay, so many simulations can be done by all that.
Let's say, when you say that, are you saying it as, as an individual or are you representing your collective?
We, as in, the human race has the ability very soon to make Grand Theft Auto V be to, so close to, singularity happens.
We're looking 10 to 15 here.
My, sorry to interrupt you.
So, my profile picture is of a chair.
What I say, we have, let's say, so my interaction so far on Clubhouse, would you, uh, believe that I'm a human or not?
I'm asking you, uh, between, based on the conversation we have been having, do you believe?
Whether the person talking to you, called Sukhru, uh, with the profile picture of a chair, is a human being?
I was thinking about what Fred said, and, uh, I, I really, um, uh, I would love for the computation to advance, uh, that quickly in the next 15 years.
But I just think that, um, I think it's gonna be longer, a lot longer than that, uh, just, I mean, like, if you just imagine how much the universe has to compute for everything that's in our brains, and, and everything that's in our galaxy, that's just, you know, from the micro to macro.
I think it's, uh, just an incredible amount of, of things to compute, and a 15-year timeline, uh, seems a little, uh, short, but, um, but I, I'm open to hearing what other people think.
I mean, I mean, just as an example, I mean, I guess Jeffrey was gonna reply, I'll applaud myself.
And Reza?
I was saying that if it never ends, means that we never find a model that can explain itself sufficiently well, that we stop asking about where that model comes from.
I think that, uh, the ultimate question might be whether we can come up to some kind of low-level physics that is completely degree-built.
But, uh, obviously we can describe everything that makes it completely different.
Sorry, that is quite a degree, what?
Degree-built.
Sorry, this is something that occurred in my timeline about the computer.
Twitter are started to degree-built things as a service.
Rebuilds are features that are built into objects in movies to make them look more three-dimensional,
like structure in spaceship models and so on.
So they look larger or in drawings, you have, uh, things that make the character look three-dimensional,
like wrinkles and shadows and so on, but they are not really necessary to convey the meaning of that whole thing.
There are just add-ons that, uh, produce the structure that you perceive.
And, uh, so when he degree-built things, people would send him pictures, like profile pictures,
and he would make them, uh, flat and very expressive and two-dimensional and removed all the extraneous features.
So if we take this idea of degree-building to physics, it would mean that you come up with a theory in which you remove all the unnecessary structure
and you only end up with a completely minimal set of axioms from which everything follows.
And ideally, it's like one axiom, right?
So, uh, because if you have multiple ones, why are these these and not any others?
You could have a foundational theory of physics that is many, many, many pages long and it's still very unsatisfying
because it doesn't explain why there is such a long source code, where does the source code come from, why it doesn't look like this, right?
Ideally, you would want to have one principle that should maybe also explain why it emerged from nothing or from whatever.
Right, so a completely degree of physics is something where you see, this is it, it couldn't be anything else.
There could be no more elegant representation of the whole thing.
And, uh, of course, you can have other theories that are more complicated,
where it basically allows you to simulate everything, predict everything, that, uh, capture all the known laws and regularities,
but you still wouldn't know why they are the way they are.
Well, there's always a simpler possibility, which is that there could have just been nothing.
Yeah, why not? Why is there not nothing?
Amy, I have a question.
Shoot.
David at the bottom, sorry.
Go ahead, David.
Hey, hey. So, so here's my question, right?
So if you look at Thomas Edison, okay, direct current, that's with the laws of physics, correct?
You look at Nikola Tesla, alternate current, he used some physics, but he used something completely different,
which now, based on what he discovered, almost all of the tech is run by.
So my question is, how did Tesla do it?
Or did he understand if this was a simulation or not?
Well, I mean, um, we won't know because he, he died, right?
I mean, all of his papers were, were gone from his little apartment and he died very poor.
Um, he had some interesting ideas about it.
I think it was, was it 369?
Is that what his, um, I don't know, there's a mathematician here.
Sean, do you know anything about Tesla?
What he was, uh, studying at the time?
I hate to put you on the spot like that.
Hi, Sean.
Hey, everyone.
Uh, I'm just gonna, a bunch of things, but let me just take quiet.
Uh, anybody else want to chime in on what they know about Tesla?
Profound evidence that we're in a simulation is identifying the potential objective purpose of it,
which could be lowering entropy.
If we can establish that high entropy is fear, and that fear is the root of all evils slash negative experiences,
uh, fear being high entropy or disorder, confusion, or many arrangements of outcomes when one perceives future outcomes.
Whenever they perceive the differentiate from the desirable outcome,
they're going to experience anxiety, confusion, depression, and commit, uh, you know, evil behaviors to increase certainty.
When, when looking at society, the answer to the problems is synergy,
which is these emergent advantages that arise from cooperation.
And in order to, you know, gain these synergistic satisfiers, there has to be diversity and order.
The purpose of the simulation be lowering entropy.
And, uh, Yosha, I'm a big fan of yours.
Even listening to you describe intelligence, you know, being our ability to construct these mental models of reality
that we can apply and then gain consciousness by restoring the information that we learn
and then designing our mental models more effectively, which is lowering entropy as well.
I'd like to hear your, uh, your, uh, reaction.
I'm not sure that I have a reaction because I, I feel that many of the notions that you project are too much driven by an intention already.
I suspect that this intention that you basically experience, tell us,
is a thing that it has a purpose that it drives itself.
And this will tell us that you perceive in the construction of your own perceptual universe,
the ground truth as the nature of truth that we are embedded in that is separate from our own self.
Nature of this ground truth is not the physical universe.
It's a thing that is, that already has dimensions of caring and built into it because it's built by the things,
the entities that you perceive all have an intrinsic relevance that keeps them stable and important.
And even if we are disassembling and deconstructing our own self,
this universe with its intrinsic relevance remains and we experience its agency,
which is the agency of the underlying organism or of the thing that tries to make sense of the universe
with an organizing principle of the mind itself.
And so it's very tempting to underlying force that we perceive as instrumental in constructing our reality
and project it into the uncaring automatism, the lens of the mind,
relationship that the cell has to the organism.
The organism doesn't exist by itself.
It is a coherent pattern in the interaction that will serve you well.
...arrangements of outcomes of a perception?
No, I think that fear is different from anxiety.
Fear is object-directed that you're in.
Are you sure that when you drive a car, you crash as a result?
Well, when you are in a normal conversation, you will not have fear, right?
So there is nothing that needs to be...
...without organization order.
Oh, yeah.
Are we in a wave-like nature?
Just a two-dimensional sine wave function that oscillates potentiality?
And then once these zeros and ones begin to organize, scale-by-scale emergence occurs?
No, I think you're overfitting.
So basically, the intuitions that you have are largely correct,
but you're seeing patterns where there might be none.
Your opinion, though, that's the problem with this conversation, logic and e-logic.
You're talking about assimilation.
That's e-logical for the human brain.
So I think, you know, that's his perspective.
I know a lot of brilliant people, and one of the things through history you see,
they focus on logic.
A guy like Nikola Tesla had logic, but also looked at things from a different perspective.
That's why he said everything is light, and he found patterns.
Just like Fibonacci, that's a pattern.
Things that spin, they spin in nature, they spin in the universe.
So I just think we should be open to everyone's perspective
instead of trying to say, I'm going to convert you to what I believe.
That's just me.
Of course, but, you know, listening to y'all just speak about the existential risk,
basically how we're on a path for self-termination,
and the only solution being cooperation, lowering entropy, order.
You know, I mean, when defecting from cooperation is incentivized in these markets,
and you couple that with existential tech, we're headed for self-termination.
And I'm just more focused on creating a cultural revolution
that will save us from our inevitable collapse in society.
Okay, I think I can kind of take some of the points that JW is advancing
and kind of, like, integrate them into a different perspective of our model.
And, you know, with this topic of, you know, being in a simulation,
if we can just, like, take it from the ground up, you know,
we look at our universe, you know, started, you know, in a much more, you know, primordial state.
And we've been undergoing a lot of evolution, you know.
Stars have formed, you know, and exploded and reformed into new stars.
And, you know, clusters of stars have spun into galaxies.
And then accretion disks have formed, which create the planets.
And then planets had, you know, the perfect configuration of water and Earth.
And we're in the perfect distance where they're in the Goldilocks zone,
where they were hot enough, where chemical reactions can happen,
but not too cold, where, you know, everything is frozen.
So we're kind of, and then on Earth, you know,
where all these, like, conditions were primal, where we're prime,
we had the evolution of life.
And, you know, life, if you look at it from the perspective of the gene,
genes, you know, per, you know, Richard Dawkins, genes are selfish.
You know, genes, their only intention is to replicate.
And that's kind of like a principle that is held constant,
like, throughout all of life.
You know, since the very onset of life,
the only intention of genes has been to replicate themselves.
And when genes replicate, you know, they create life.
And it kind of came to what JW was saying, you know,
life, you know, like these organisms,
the continuity of genes is very much, you know,
an example of the universe counteracting entropy
in some sort of way, you know,
because typically, you know,
according to the second law of thermodynamics,
things will inevitably head towards a higher state of entropy.
But when it comes to the DNA or RNA or genetic code,
there is a heightened degree of integrity of the code
that, you know, it's not completely impervious to entropy.
You know, there's mutation and modification and stuff like that.
But in comparison to other processes in the natural world,
you know, the processes of life,
in particular, like the genetic code has, you know,
a higher resiliency to the processes of entropy.
So I can kind of like see that intuition.
I can kind of understand JW's intuition
where there is something special.
There's some proclivity where there is this like inversion of entropy.
You know, it's not like a complete negation of entropy.
It is a heightened resistance to entropy.
And I think, you know, one of the ways that I frame my worldview
is, you know, through this lens of evolution
and the lens of, you know, cosmic evolution, biological evolution,
you know, seeing how, you know,
we did come from a much more primordial state.
And one of the ways, one of the models that I like a lot
is Conway's Game of Life,
because if you, I don't know if it's been discussed in this room,
because I feel like every time the question of
are we in a simulation gets brought up,
everybody always brings up Conway's Game of Life.
And I think it's for a reason,
because Conway's Game of Life shows that, you know,
very simple systems with very simple rules
create like these complex environments,
you know, that devolve on their own.
And in a way, you know, our universe, you know,
started from a primordial set of rules.
And then from that primordial set of rules,
you know, stars evolved, planets evolved,
life evolved, humans evolved, and here we are.
So, you know, I think that this idea,
this idea that our universe is entailed
through some sort of simulation process,
at its surface, you know,
I consider it to be plausible.
But then my question goes, you know,
say somebody used the example,
in like 10, 20 years, who knows,
we might have like a Grand Theft Auto 20,
where it's very indistinguishable from our own universe.
This makes me beg the question is,
can those characters in that game,
are they ever going to have any ability
to have any consequentiality on the external world?
So, another way of putting it,
and let's say Conway's Game of Life,
if it gets very complex enough,
if you tweak some things in the game,
and you make it so it can model,
it can eventually evolve into, you know,
a universe like this one,
are those agents, are those entities in that game
ever going to be able to modify
or glimpse at the transistors
that are creating the simulation?
And to apply that to us,
if we are in a simulation,
given that it's plausible,
are we ever going to have the ability
to look at the transistors,
to look at whatever is entailing this simulation?
Are we ever going to be able to go
beyond our ground of existence
into the universe beneath us
or above us that is stimulating us?
I don't think so.
My take is that our universe is self-contained,
and if we are a simulation,
you know, we are an internally self-contained system,
and I think that in terms of
whether there's going to be any discovery
of what's outside,
I don't think that there is anything there
for us to work with.
I think if there is a simulation,
we are self-contained,
and I think that we better just understand
the mechanics of our universe,
you know, through our inquiry,
through our physics,
through our quantum mechanics,
and I think, you know, that's...
And through our morals, our ethics,
you know, I think that the question
of whether we are a simulation,
you know, it's a fascinating intellectual inquiry,
but ultimately, you know,
the more prescient question is,
how do we deal with our own existence,
like, in this realm,
in our self-contained universe?
And that's my spiel.
Thanks for listening.
I heard somebody was trying to make comments.
That was me.
I wanted to respond to you, Ramsey.
So, okay, okay.
So, we think about what Ramsey just said,
in terms of...
But also think about all the compute
that would be required
to simulate all the physics
that Ramsey spoke about.
Like, all the compute required
to...
for the DNA,
not just of every single life form,
and, you know,
to simulate the evolution
and the mutation
and the physics of all that.
So, a software simulation
of reality in a computer,
a reality like Grand Theft Auto,
is about rendering graphics
that have artificial physics,
but that's not, like, real physics.
And so, like,
when we're talking about
simulating string theory
or eigenstate thermalization
based on random local...
based on local random matrix theory
or computer simulations
of extremely basic particle physics,
like, extremely basic particle collisions,
these are things
that supercomputers
at astrophysics labs
working on things like LHC,
they're using the world's
biggest supercomputers
for these basic
physics simulations.
So, what I'm saying is,
like, there may not be
enough compute on Earth
to simulate even one human brain
before 2050,
and maybe not even before 2060.
And even then,
I don't think we're really talking
about simulating
the particle physics
of every neural oscillation
in a single brain.
So, the idea of a computer
that could accurately simulate
the entire cosmos
is itself
just...
it's because of the amount
of compute involved
that just by itself
it's just a far-fetched idea.
But this computer
with its vast resources
would also have to
likely exist in a universe
that may also be simulated.
So, if one simulation
contains many smaller simulations
and those smaller simulations
contain many
more smaller simulations,
and each subsequent simulation
should be draining
the compute resources
of the first simulation
or the highest simulation.
So, as you explore this idea,
you begin to see
that each new simulation
within a simulation
increases the amount
of compute required
by profound amounts.
And each new sim
is decreasingly likely...
is basically decreasing...
it's a decreasingly likely situation.
And the most likely situation
is that the number
of simulations
is like one or zero.
because there's like
the amount of compute complexity
just increases
with each new one.
And so, that was my point.
I agree with you
that you brought this up
and I posed the question.
Okay, so, if we're simulation
and the universe
that's simulating us
is being simulated
and that universe
is being simulated,
you know, is it turtles
all the way down?
And I think you make
a great point that, you know,
with every subsequent simulation,
you know, there's going to be
some diminishment
of the capacity
to, you know, simulate things.
And, you know, perhaps
if given, granted
that let's say
we are simulation,
you know, it seems like,
it seems possible
that, you know,
the one, the universe
or whatever you want
to call that realm
simulating us
might be like the ground one.
But I think, you know,
if we're going to think that way,
you know, like,
I think it's very hard
for us to like cognize,
you know, what kind of realm
that could be that, you know,
to simulate a universe like this.
You know, it could be a realm
that is like beyond
anything.
Perhaps, you know,
perhaps this universe
could be a simulation
without having a simulator,
you know, without having
some sort of agency
responsible for the simulation.
Perhaps this is,
that's just how universes work.
That's functioned
through an arbitrary set
of like the multi,
multi, the many worlds hypothesis.
You know, there could be
many universes
with which with slightly tweaked,
you know, fundamental constants.
And this universe
just happens to have
the concept to create
this instantiation of life.
And there could be
other universes
that after their Big Bangs,
they just fizzle out
and other universes
where, you know,
stars in the financial form.
And you know what I'm saying?
Like, there could be
an infinite repertoire
of possible outcomes
and that that could just be
like some fundamental nature
of potentiality
that has nothing to do
with some agency
programming a special
stimulation, you know,
with that type of intelligence.
So I think there's,
we have to kind of like
probe at our assumptions,
you know,
and we apply to agencies
and these models.
Go ahead.
Yeah, well,
we're in a loop right now.
We've actually been here
like two hours ago.
We did this loop
and I don't think
Mike or Yosha
ended up talking
about a beautiful metaphor
how we're a vortice
in a plane of water.
And I wanted to ask
him a question on that.
So maybe we can jump
out of the loop
and fast forward
to where we were
when he was answering.
Okay.
And it was,
so here's my question
because I've had the,
Yosha,
you're the first person
I've ever met
who thinks as perhaps
a human brain
is a vortice.
And first off,
that's a monopole.
So what's your opinion
on the monopole
dipole thing
if that's how
you think about things.
And second,
I really would love
to hear your opinion
on why the golden ratio
or the Fibonacci sequence
seems to exude itself
pretty pervasively
throughout our simulation
of the air quotes.
Thank you.
This is Robert Carbone
and I'm going to be
the only complete person
or who knows.
I cannot answer
your questions.
So in a way
you can think about
patterns that are stable
and patterns
that are not stable.
The patterns
that are stable
are essentially
those that are
in a way periodic
that keep the information
from the flow
or the information
that you are
radiating information
out of the volume
information inside
of the volume, right?
So that means
that you have
to look for
patterns
if you want
to have a stable
pattern that bend
back into themselves
so they can be stable.
and if you look
at continuous substrates
and water
is something
that is approximately
continuous
and it's made
from too many parts
to count
the things
that are stable
in water
are vortices
which means
you have something
that rotates
around it itself
so it stays stable
in a given volume.
It's a monopole
because it's
two-dimensional
and the vortex
itself
to remain stable
needs dynamics
that extend
a little bit
above two dimensions
so you need
to turn this
into this cone
it only works
because you can't
bend the surface
of the water
if the surface
of the water
would be completely flat
don't know
if you could have
a stable vortex
you need to have
it basically
changes in density
if you can
change the density
of the surface
then again
you can
have vortices
the fibonacci spiral
is a pattern
that extends outwards
it doesn't bend
back into itself
and it bends
back outwards
in a relatively
simple and stable ratio
and I suspect
that these
outward bending
processes
there are
a number of them
and a number
of ratios around them
and the fibonacci spiral
is just one
of the common patterns
that you can get
when you have
a process
that originates
at some kind
of point
with some kind
of angular momentum
in addition
to the outward
force going momentum
if you want
to have something
that bends
back into itself
you're cutting out
in a stable process
can you hear me
in a stable process
basically
the information
needs to travel
in a periodic way
so if you
imagine you take
some kind of spiral
and you try to bend
it in such a way
that the information
traveling along
that spiral
doesn't get lost
at some point
you get a circle
right
and this is
the equivalent
of the vortex
and
the vortices
that the particles
are made of
are not in 2D
but they are
in multiple dimensions
that are not
necessarily aligned
with the dimensions
of the space
in which the
photonic interactions
take place
so when somebody
like Tesla
says
everything is light
I think what he
refers to
is that the space
that we are in
is the space
where we have locations
with the potential
for interactions
with photons
and all the
interesting
interactions
that you observe
outside of the
core of atoms
are interactions
via photons
right
so with some
approximation
everything is photons
so everything
is light
in this sense
this is correct
but it's because
light can interact
across certain
types of vortices
that can form
the components
of atoms
and molecules
so
Isla Prigogine
came up with
I think
could it be
the original idea
that human beings
are dissipative
systems
or vortices
and
so
you can see
that
basically
the entire universe
is a fractal
vortexes
or vortices
from a galaxy
to an atom
to
a cell
to the human
brain
to
basically
yeah
everything
is a vortex
in some sense
or a dissipative
system
and that
has to
maintain
its own
equilibrium
and export
increasing amounts
of chaos
to the surrounding
environment
in order to
maintain its
equilibrium
in that sense
I would say
that
if you look up
just vortices
in brain waves
or vortices
in the brain
or imagine
if you just
google the brain
as a vortex
you can see
there's a lot
that's been written
about this
over the years
The context
of the
thought experiment
that I presented
I just tried
to give
something like
a visual
metaphor
that allows
us to imagine
that an observer
is a multistable
particle system
so it's basically
lots of small
vortices
that form
larger vortices
and an individual
particle I imagine
to be something
like a mathematical
vortex
that is oscillating
in multiple
dimensions
depending on
the type
of the particle
it can be
two, four
or eight dimensions
or combinations
thereof
and they
basically get
embedded into
a larger
surrounding
interaction space
which oscillates
in fewer
dimensions
and you can
embed the
things at scale
into a curved
three-dimensional
space
that is evolving
in time
and so
the thinking
of yourself
as a system
of vortices
that are
multistable
that can
arrange themselves
in such a way
that they don't
fall apart
but they can
form memories
that sort of
remember things
in their past
and can use this
to control
their behavior
in the future
I saw that
as a helpful
way to think
about our
own nature
but it doesn't
mean that we
are literally
going round
in spirals
or circles
or monopoles
I think
Alan Watts
has a really
great illustration
where he
kind of like
takes this
topic of how
like we
are just like
little eddies
in this giant
ocean
and you know
within the eddies
are little
smaller eddies
and I think
this topic
does have a
basis
in a broader
intuition
and so
Alan Watts
he kind of
like expands
the metaphor
even more
and applies it
to you know
what we call
nouns
you know
as things
you know
he says that
like all nouns
are actually verbs
you know
so like
we are not
I am not a human
I am the universe
humaning
you know
like you are not
like you know
that is not a tree
that is the universe
treeing
you know
like every noun
is a verb
because you know
everything that like
exists in this
in this timeline
in this universe
like a tree
or a human
you know
is a process
it is a process
that is constantly
undergoing
you know
metabolism
respiration
all these processes
that are
are sustained
through its
cellular mechanisms
and then eventually
it expires
you know
and if you can
kind of
look at time
you know
with
with its
you know
as a dimensional
aspect
you know
where you can
kind of imagine
you know
a timeline
from beginning
to end
where it
where it
where it starts
at like zero
and then it
as it moves
through time
you can kind of
like capture
like slices
of the frames
and then
you put them
all together
and it creates
like this long
undulating snake
you'll see that
everything from its onset
you know
from the moment
you were conceived
until the moment
you were dying
you can kind of
like picture this
with time
as an added dimension
and you go out
to the higher dimension
from that
you can kind of
like imagine
the timeline
of your life
as this long
undulating snake
and then throughout
that time
you know
there's
there's everything
like air
oxygen
food
water
is pouring into you
and then you're
releasing air
water
and there's
like a constant cycle
where things
are coming into you
and coming out to you
and there's never
a moment
where there's
a concrete
static thing
and I think
it's a very
fascinating thought
experiment
to imagine
everything in the
universe
as this process
as this happening
where if you
take that time
dimension
and you imagine
things as
undulating snakes
you see that
everything is like
we are all
our little
our little
vortices
our little eddies
in the ocean
and then
we're all
kind of like
transmitting
matter
and energy
to each other
and we're all
kind of like
in this
embedded sea
of like
eddies among eddies
and eddies
and those eddies
and I think
it's a very
beautiful thought
experiment
to kind of
visualize
what the
Buddhists
call
the principle
of
which is
the
we want
we want to
talk about
and consider
so we
obviously
need to
switch
from
classical
computation
because of
the limited
computational power
and notion
of time
obviously
quantum systems
we know
that they can
exist
in superposition
of states
and
well
this
superposition
is
basically
described
by this
wave function
and
the observation
that causes
this wave function
to collapse
to one of
these many
possible states
and
so my question
is if the idea
well basically
if it's just
a pure
if
if we can
look at it
as a pure
simulation
which has
no collapse
basically means
you have one
description
of the universe
as a wave function
that changes
suddenly into
the universe
as discrete
events and states
exactly
exactly
propagate through
time and space
and
by observation
it collapses
into states
so we have
this
our universe
as a quantum system
that is based
time
and the act
of observation
causes this
wave of any
possible state
is it literally
infinite
because you know
we know
that there's
not infinite
I mean it
in the
metaphorical term
we're using
something that is
not literal
I think that
you were
getting
into a
Grand Theft Auto
avatar character
choosing to
make a left
hand turn
down a street
now once
the known
information
reaches a
certain
threshold
the scene
can now
be rendered
potential
of states
collapses
into a
finite state
idea
I was just
referring to
the stance
that you were
taking to
your observation
it didn't
seem to be
an unmoved
observer
but it
seemed to
be
you were
you felt
a certain
enthusiasm
that I think
does not
belong to
physics
the god
of truth
is some
very cold
machine
if it warms
you
you're not
serving it
right i like to make a uh every time i try to solve a problem i imagine if there's a simpler
problem i can solve and the problem as it's posed right now it's just beyond my ability to even
comprehend so i was wondering if in the literature anybody has ever looked into a simpler
uh dimension or just getting rid of quantum mechanics altogether and just looking at classical
world where people were able to ask a meaningful investigation into whether they could figure out
whether it was a simulation or not i just kind of want to reiterate my point that um if we are in
a simulation um i think you know um we were no matter what we're self-contained you know like
similarly to how the video game players like it's it's a crummy an analogy coming metaphor but
similarly to how the video game characters are going to be or like to see the transistors
representing them you know like there's an engine they're producing them simulating them and uh
they're kind of like uh like blocking their own self-contained system so uh perhaps somebody may
may have an alternate explanation that may rebut this but so like uh with us there's differentiation
sorry it's getting late here on the east coast um and i do think that that will be possible i think
that's why i'm holding this room i mean it's a fantastic discussion but people from different
departments and different avenues discussions because everybody's in their own little world
and doing what they do and if you're not aware of it just doesn't lead to um evolution it turns out that
you can actually look at the world in a different scale so if you look at it uh just throw in a
just throw in a a thought a thought experiment um so so yeah so so maybe if you're if you're thinking
about you know designing a computer if the the only thing that the the character in the computer can
notice is the environment that was created by the computer um it can be really difficult to imagine
what's outside um and that's creating that like like for the character of the computer i mean you can even
look at what is it uh godel's uh uh incompleteness theorem or or um in terms of like in terms of
like uh trying to argue that there's just things that are outside the sphere that you're in or just
there's some things that just will never be knowable right it's that's um so what i'm thinking is
like but if there is if you can model the solar system and people model the solar system they simulate
there's that you can test uh um ideas about how the solar system works without act without being
able to observe uh everything that you would need to prove that those ideas are so basically the
simulation of the solar system helps to helps to prove or helps to demonstrate that the ideas of how
the solar system works are actually correct and so what i'm saying is like if you're within the
simulation and you have enough computer that you could simulate the simulation from inside the
simulation then you could create testable predictions uh that you could say well if it was if if it was
if you know it's like a transistor like if if if it's like a transistor based uh you know computer out
that is is creating this simulation and then uh we should have you know then something weird should
happen you know at this point you know what i'm saying it's like made like i don't know what that
testable prediction would be but if you can get really precise about simulating your own simulation
then you could uh try to make inferences about what would be required to simulate that simulation and
then where and what you could look for from within that simulation that might indicate which type of
simulation you're in if you're in a simulation that could be just one possible example of something
that uh we we might want to look for like provide a clue to what's outside the simulation room was if
you know if so i'm thinking of of the mystery of uh dark energy because dark energy is uh the energy
uh of empty space you know just in the quantum vacuum uh that is like making the universe expand
uh at a faster rate so has anybody ever pondered that uh perhaps uh dark energy is uh energy that is
being input into this universe uh from from uh the ground of existence from beyond the curtain has that
has that ever uh crossed anybody's mind i think i asked yosha this earlier he had a really beautiful
explanation of what uh dark energy is um go ahead yosha it was dark matter not dark energy oh that's
that's right go ahead standard model proposes that we have four standard four forces right the
the weak force which allows them to decay again not fall into each other completely and then we have
the electromagnetic forces which keeps the electrons in the vicinity of the core the electrons and that
allows that bounce against each other and thereby facilitate the interaction between the molecules
and we have gravity and uh there imagine now that there is something that interacts with gravity
but for some reason it's not electromagnetic at all so it does not interact with electrons
three percent of the universe is the very chaotic pattern one rooted in material simulation
you've presented three hours and particularly just a little before you brought up how certain
rotations can be represented in 2d and 4d space but can't be represented in 3d space i was curious about
this particularly on two points one you mentioned there are two types of rotations one rooted on the
dimensional plane and another that considers time i might be butchering that could you go more into why
that rotation uh that considers time would exist uh but i'm actually more interested on the point you made
that it's possible in certain dimensions 2d or 4d and not in three dimensional space is that due to some
mathematical difficulty okay i'll try to explain it's a slight misunderstanding maybe it's difficult to
get it across the presentation then trying to digest his philosophy uh you may have a better perspective
on his philosophy but from my perspective he describes the will as something unconscious and like
in your theory of simulation where what will exist particularly like in your view would that also
be a part of the simulated universe and that we're just kind of not actually a part of like a unique
object that could exist outside of the simulation or uh would we be something that's kind of like
inserted into the simulation i think that will only exist in the mind one is the absolute measurement
you take an absolute scale of something right so it is a certain value and the other one is i would
like to say that um i i uh i had a deep uh experience one time where i conceptually reduced the concept of
eye at the very minimum to being like a directional concept and so as long as you have a directional
concept to represent self then you could and the organism that is you could sort of navigate life
and say well this direction needs food or something very the most primitive possible sense of ego is just
a directional concept i'm sorry not the the most primitive possible effective just imagine that you is
is just a place where signals come from signals that the cause movement of your body okay but i but
i'm so i'm not i wasn't saying that what i'm saying is like imagine that the concept of you
is really just where signals are coming from and there's no there's no you there's just it's just
pointing to where signals are coming from and those signals are like causing uh this body to move
into different directions they're causing instructions to happen and so you is like maya is going to
but i want to go back to what ramsey said in that this is the concept of eddies and like imagine
your willpower and your will is like um it's like a fountain of of of causation and you're just
noticing where this fountain of causation is coming from and uh that location is is the basis of the
formulation of a concept of you that your mind is creating that's not really real but it's just a
fountain of causation where some causes are coming from that are doing these things and that's the
concept i noticed their teachers um that are performing that the same task day to day and um so i i i
imagine if they had a story in their head it might be um more in their benefit and the benefit of what
they're constructing to have a a very interesting story that involves love and so just to consider
the idea that you can just realize that your mind is uh creating everything and then you're good to go
i want to sort of like um uh point out something that people might find interesting which is the five
ranks of tozan uh it goes by the name so basically it's a it's a poem that describes that describes
stages of realization in the practice of zen buddhism and um this what i think one of the big things that
um that this does is it's it's it's it's the point out that it's not like there's just one realization
that happens it's not like you know you realize your mind is is creating you know everything and
then you're good to go it's there's a huge journey for the human being to go through uh if you uh are
are a serious uh that uh uh going through the process of of uh of meditating with with uh maybe
with the hope of of awakening to greater wisdom i think that this is a great illustration but it's
like like imagine like if you see if you see someone else who uh you know to to try to to try to like
understand how your mind is or isn't creating everything look at someone else and and their
misconception when they or or you know one person will even if you're like if you're my analogies
i was just using a dating app one one person tells me their opinion of me and another person tells me
their opinion to me and the opinions between the two people don't match and and so you can see like
well this person seems like they're a lot more wrong and how could your mind be creating reality
if you're you know how could someone else's mind be creating reality when they're when they are just
so completely wrong about what happens if they were creating reality they'd be right all the time
it's it's uh right if everyone's mind was creating reality you'd always be right so that's not the case
that your mind is is creating uh uh reality itself and you can see that not it's not hard to see that
when you're just thinking about yourself but if you look at how other people are falling short
then it becomes apparent so there's a lot more to realize a simulation with some kind of parent
universe that has fewer constraints on the neck entropy sources than ours basically if you want to
have some kind of energy source in our universe as far as we know and maybe there are better ways of
doing it we need some kind of a sun that produces a neck entropy gradient between the sun and deep
space where energy is radiated off so you can basically build some a pump uh in there that is
driving your computer and there is a larger size to the sun that you can make before it collapses into
a black hole and there is a longest duration to which the sun can burn and until it's burned out right
if you want to get nuclear fusion if it's uh if the sun is smaller than this it's going to not uh ignite
and if it's larger than this it's going to burn up faster so there is a limit to the number of
computations that you can physically realize in our universe even if you overcome this limit of a star
and you find better energy sources than stars there's going to be probably limits in in the sizes of
universe that you can uh create by uh blowing up uh matter um and coalescing it through a big bang or
something right so there is basically a largest number that then can be computed or that can be
stored in the universe and uh it's it's conceivable that there is some kind of current universe that
doesn't have these um problems and maybe it has unbounded complexity maybe not infinite but unbounded
maybe that's possible i don't know this was actually the opposite question this was my initial question
if the bounds we we see now in this in this mathematics um is just bound to this world or to
this simulation so i i wonder basically the question would be do you find a set of causal principles
that gives rise to some kind of dynamic fractals in which you can uh find computers and intelligent
beings and so on uh and uh is it possible to make one that is substantially larger than the universe that
we are in and it's uh it's probably a proof that is more interesting and involved than the riemann conjecture
but maybe it's easier i don't know yeah if i had a million dollars maybe bitcoin helps i can set
out the price yes okay but uh complexity by itself is not necessarily the problem right up to a point
so uh we can probably make a simulation in which something can become intelligent if we set the conditions
of the simulation right in the beginning but we don't seem to be in such a simulation we are in one
that is much much larger our intelligence seems to be a lucky byproduct of whatever thing happens
because there are so many stars and galaxies around right so we just maybe random emergence in there
might not have simulation and the very this very question is based on presumption
that there is some kind of a separate reality and we have the representations of this reality and i would
like to say that this presumption is not uh it's just a presumption because for example if we uh take
a hand and if we have a numb hand for example and we just see it so in this way this hand we have
uh this hand through the kind of representation but if you restore our sensibility and we feel this
hand then we feel it in a very different way when we feel it from inside not that we feel it from
outside with another hand and on the other side if you are talking about representations like for example
thoughts can be considered representations but if we uh consider thoughts and these representations as
reality is our internal reality and we observe them do we have representations for these representations
so uh it shows that uh this uh uh this uh issue is relative about simulation and for example if we could
uh it shows that we just don't have access to all things like like with the example of the numb hand
that if you get an access then it's no longer represent uh representation it's no longer given us as a
representation but it's a direct perception and what if we just don't have access to all events uh to the universe
i mean we we have access but we don't realize it we are not aware of it and if by by chance we can
restore the access or reach the access to all events that are happening in the universe then there will
be no difference between representations and reality i have a similar question that if we were to discover
that there is something going on behind the curtain how are we going to distinguish that from yet new physics
and somehow for us to say that um what we see at our lower energy is just know that the new reality that we discover
behind the curtain is somehow artifact in some sense and i don't know if we are smart enough to know
whether it's a new physics or an artifact if it's not an artifact then it's just nature and then we're
цент who mentioned about the self self-compassion so back to this topic uh are we living in this
