b0324y ctpr
(audio note: transcription needs to be fixed)
Neuroscience & AI a path toward solving consciouness

00:00
Crash is actually not unlike that of if I see someone running toward, you know, someone who I don't know but it's the meaning that we give to it and I say all that to say that that's probably up until about two months ago, so I reviewed this manuscript which provide a very compelling story and what they investigated what they observed is that there is an area of the visual cortex v2 so supplemental so sort of the second in line from the primary visual area and they provide a very compelling.

00:35
That that region in and of itself could induce the press of like states this is in rodents and mice specifically and they did be appropriate controls they controlled for the visual influences of an emotional state they controlled for. Making sure that the projections from this be too area did not in fact send any kind of projector communication to limbic regions and so it was really compelling and it it sort of opened my my conceptual framework for perhaps there are regions within century areas that are yet unobservable unexplored that they in themselves can contain fundamental properties of emotion that we just don't give a lot of attention to.

01:30
Yeah, I would say because again, this is really just the hypothesis but you set the challenge effectively to make the case that emotions are dominant in terms of actual no dynamics and processing or whether vision is a dominant as it sort of canonically claimed to be I I wouldn't seek to answer the canonical view but I would say that.

02:04
Yeah the past 20 years and even before we have understood and with increasing definition the extent to which emotional state lenses are the perception of vision and actually all the other senses as well and also what particular aspects of the visual sensorium recruit attention and also how it is that stimuli under certain conditions or could get conditions of context will be differentially interpreted as.

02:39
Either rewarding or you know threatening etc and then at a final level of gradation it seems to be and I cannot vouch for me in your experience of rodents, but certainly as humans traverse the world we seem to be applying aesthetic judgments to just about everything that we look at and we are doing that extremely rapidly without ever consciously engaging well without the need necessarily to consciously engage with the, You know.

03:14
Do I like the look of this does it seem like a nice place to be? Do I how do I feel about this without having to ask ourselves the questions? So it seems to be the case that at least in terms of the phenomenology and there's also evidence from functional connectivity that yes emotions are both lensing attention where attention is recruited under context and also basically serving to interpret visual information all the time.

03:52
That's it That's a good point I don't know if people remember recent papers about emotions being critical to influence a decision-making. We're actually just being necessary for this is decision-making to happen at all. But as Dexter was talking I was thinking about you know, when I see something I might have an emotional reaction to what I'm seeing and so it's plausible that what you're saying, you know that emotions might be happening in the in the individual in the second layer of the visual cortex is very interesting and but as I've heard this author his name is his first name is Peter's last name is.

04:27
Spelt TSE and he was suggesting that the basis of decision-making happens at the the neural level and it would be interesting if emotions are also happening at the neural level, you know from from a single neuron to a small neural circuit in a a microcortical column to to you know, across across the entire brain.

04:49
I don't know exactly know how that would work yet, but it's sort of it is a mind expanding idea. Love to hear the people's thoughts.

05:05
I guess it sort of to me. I think of if emotions were contained within discrete neuronal elements. What would be the evolutionary value to that? So, for example, if I suffered a mutation, you know in that cell type that's encoding for that specific emotion. What I you know, the inability to experience obviously fear.

05:32
I think you know, we could agree that that would be evolutionarily valid adaptive because fear absolutely serves a role critical role. In our survival. What about other emotions? What about the positive emotions? What that somehow either benefit or lead to your detriment to my survival. So I wonder if redundancy there plays a important role and so I tend to favor maybe a view that emotions are distributed among a network and throughout the brain and then probably we don't have the computational power to delineate.

06:16
Trying to gradations and emotions, which I also think there is a paper by. Kim last name is Kim 2012-2013 at nature and essentially what they were making the argument for was the extended McDula it was between the amygdala and the BNST that they found a cluster of neurons that were able by way of their projections to encode separable features of anxiety, so for example, there was a circuit from the basil lateral nuclear to lateral hypothalamus in that encoded saying, The vigilance component another one that can control the respiratory component so hyper ventilation and things like that and so I think that that's also a very interesting way to sort of look at emotions as separable features kind of group it all together, you know anger fear anxiety but maybe in effect if we subscribe to that physiological model of emotions that it's really just the inner subjective experience of a range of physiological changes that we could actually map out each physiological.

07:33
Shift and then probably find that all of the neurons that are responsible for all of those changes are encoded and probably act together synergistically and comprise what we consider any emotional. Yeah I very much like that and I think to your original statement that would make good evolution evolutionary sense that you would have multiple redundancy you could survive mutations and damage to one area one column, so yeah great argument well.

08:06
I'm sort of wondering what the you know, so we have our we have we can describe the humans the human beings the inner experience but but I I'm also wondering so when something travels to your inner experience when something when an emotion like anxiety or fear travels into your limbic system, What does that look like are we are as a neuroscientist sheriff shared or any other neurosis neuroscientists in the stage, are you are you focusing um papers that suggest you know, maybe higher frequency patterns for anxiety or or fear or something or are we getting close to being able to identify, you know, like a like a high level cluster of frequency patterns in my indicate that someone is is they're interstate might be moving towards a more afraid state or more anxiety state or more joyful state.

09:00
Is does that exist yet, do you think? For fear, certainly. I would say just do research on the circuits that are within the amygdala yeah. Just make quick response. Yeah, that's a very interesting question. I don't have an answer for you Michael but I can maybe provide a little bit of insight on the reverse of that which is if we stimulated different parameters at different parts of the brain, can we induce like different emotional experiences and there is this paper that came out the big top of this year there really is?

09:41
I think it will be. Probably one of those like hallmark papers I was done in humans and it was the end of one however what they managed should do, they implanted multiple stimulating electrodes and a human this was a patient who was undergoing deep brain regulation for depression and so they placed a stimulating electrodes at different parts of the brain and they essentially mapped out almost in the way that we looked we think of old, you know, cortical mappings of you know, functional anatomic relationships, but they did this.

10:19
And the very sort of systematic way and we're able to say things like five hertz stimulation at this part of the brain induced panic like responses versus two hertz stimulation at this part of the brain induced euphoric license and I'll get the author for you but I think that was an interesting way to maybe look at perhaps there are frequency dynamics also so it's not just that anatomy but perhaps their electrophysiological signatures and by way of the communication that, Tells us something about an emotional state of a person.

10:58
Yeah, I think maybe those two things actually wrap together and they're not mutually exclusive so we have these two models of the this idea of the brain as a localized, you know, anatomically bound structure where where there was this region which was associated with this emotion and this behavior and then there were these kind of oscillations that would difficult to pin down in terms of their relation to behaviors and so there's, Good evidence to show that that both actually pair and the the frequency of oscillation relates to the distance of functional connectivity, so the message passing is modulated from a particular area according to its frequency so as an example like gamma ban frequency firing in the ventral striatum are basically the speaks a distant connectivity to other parts of the brain.

12:08
And I don't want to sound overly kind of new aging but the kind of an integration a recruitment of wider network of areas so the effect that you might see from stimulating in reverse one part of the brain with a particular frequency would invoke the appropriate pairing of other regions which would then entrain the emotional states, so yeah those two things there's yeah if you just look for I think one paper is an example, but there's a whole bunch of.

12:43
If you look at I think a gamut that you just type into Google's scholar like gamma band oscillations and yeah just the word long distance. I think you'll see an example of this so so those things might not be mutual exclusive and they might speak functional connectivity across anatomical regions to create the emotional state and in train behavior.

13:08
Okay. I'm wondering if anyone wants to ask for the questions in this topic now. I'd be a good time and and and yeah, thanks for bringing that to the station to my idea what? We're talking about emotions like they are some clear-cut concepts and and and very well-defined but I think in truth humans do have a problem with scribing and defining emotions, especially complex once for example take electricity as a condition which is lost for voice for what you feel it's one part and the second part is there is although there is a, Researcher about emotional valence and neural correlation that.

14:10
Um, yeah, there's a lot of different ways that emotions are expressed in humans and also different organisms and they I think wait, where are you saying is I forgot what the disorders called is it is ignorant. Alexa sign yeah, oh let's okay cuz I know there's um, there's a lot of cases where drugs like we can actually make it so that certain people kind of lose their ability to experience emotions, but there's also people.

14:44
That have disorders like psychopathy where they literally they usually have or were born with either an altered amygdala or they have damage to their amygdala and they cannot experience the emotions of empathy or sadness or sometimes even happiness or brief and yeah these things these things do impact. The ways that emotional consciousness should be studied as well, especially five percent of the population is made up of sociopaths and psychopaths.

15:32
So that actually is a pretty large amount so yeah at this impact thing you have a black empathy is common with autistic spectrum disorders and with age deep people, so it's not specific to psychos yeah. Yes this maybe something different going on with psychopaths in that yeah you do have of course a classic transfer your emotional bluntedness, but you seem to have an upregulation or a sensor's centralization to dopaminergic rewards so the impulsivity that you see in psychopathy accounts for the it is hypothesized the exploitative goal seeking behavior at the expense of other, you know reward.

16:30
S you know, new opioid rewards or activation of the oxytocin system and just in the absence of your this or other in the presence of this of these blunted emotions you have a yeah a natural upregulation of dopaminergic rewards and intend to gain purchase on the world in other terms which 
are yeah per dopamine purely engaged in prediction and reward which beget the, Supply capacity.

17:10
I well you all were talking I was just imagining that for probably for the first time that that maybe consciousness is fundamentally an emotional state with like sort of universally but it would be defined as if like like if you can imagine imagine the the conscious working space is including everything you're conscious of right now the sort of maybe defined an in terms of tempo spatial patterns and so someone who is and I don't I don't a side note as I guess.

17:45
I kind of wanted to distinguish the terms psychopathy from socio from sociopathy but but I guess that's not super important right now but um, so I was just imagining yeah, so maybe someone who's psychopath is sort of stuck in a certain kind of emotional state it is unable to have empathy towards a other people in a neurotypical way, but but I think that maybe that is still a kind of emotional state.

18:12
As if everything is like if you're not in one emotional state, you're in another one and ever in like so every alternative emotion state is defined by every other one it's like hey, it's just a it's a weird sort of. Idea else. I'll just pause for a second. I really like that because when I think about, Emotional stage as an epic phenomenon of physiologic physiology, essentially and the inner experience of the physiology.

18:44
It accounts for the differences and time scales, you know, for example, when we're talking about the level of hormonal secretion that can occur over 12 to 24 to 36 hour whereas we know neurotransmission, you know, it is and fraction of a second and so some unifying modality not modality, but some unifying framework to make sense of how in the an experience can, you know, not necessarily make those time skills equivalent, but I think.

19:20
Italy, it does provide a framework for the inner experience of the subjective experience and how that can be uncomfortable or unpaired from the time scale over which you know, being things work because I think one of the issues that complicates the my mind that conversation around consciousness is how do we if we're saying that neural elements compose the experience of consciousness, how do we make sense of the fact that for example neurons contain?

19:55
S and they can influence and shift at such a rate before we are aware of something happen so you know, for example if I see something looming object either above me or a specifically in my periphery there's an element of my experience that knows it has identified that but then normally it takes easier second longer for me to be quote-unquote consciously aware that that element has entered, you know through my periphery and so I do think that when we, Kind of consider physiology in the time constraints over which you know, hormones are secreted and even if we want to get more inclusive we're talking about epigenetic changes, you know, maybe an hour ago I do kind of think of you know, perhaps consciousness is just the inner experience of all of these changes and it's not located in any one of those.

20:58
Yeah that was a really great description which narrows down on the philosophical problem, you know in a very precise way that I think is useful and shared that I'm tempted to ask do you subscribe to the happy phenomenism at all levels that consciousness may just be a phenomenon with a sort of one-way arrow out of the brain but without recursion.

21:26

All like energy is always energy and it is all and and when I think that's.

22:48
Um, I have the feeling that the the person who started this group would would be upset if I if I let us go get me two I I.

23:02
Sort of.

23:07

24:03
I don't know what that experience it looks like in mathematical terms or explain it scientifically but that would be what I'm attempting to do to create a being or mathematics or some kind of structure that's repeatable that allows allows that that structure to experience reality in the same or consciousness in the same way that that your eye or anyone else does.
24:27

25:37
To go well for. Yeah can I ask you to clarify when you say you said recursive oh yeah sure so um epic phenomenon as generally understood is just that a phenomenon supervins on a particular state of back of matter so consciousness super veins on brain states, but it does it is caused by brain states but doesn't have any return causation upon the way that that neurons require it fire in turn in other words, it's.

26:14
Just a poorer caricature but just for illustration it's like an ectopasm that sort of like, you know smoke soft the top of the brain but is like the engine from the fun world of train, it doesn't actually be in any particular way influence the motion operation of the train, ah, that's very very interesting, you know, when you said that I thought of, I guess my I would pose a question back to you then which is what happens when you respond to a change in consciousness or what happens when you responding and kind to your consciousness state therefore, for example, you're taking actions that may lead to an emotional state that will then you know, like as you said will bring it back to brainwide changes, so I think of what happens if and as a response to me feeling sad, you know, I'm aware of I'm a conscious.

27:12
I'm aware of my emotions. Al state so then I go and I consume alcohol or I engage in a pattern of activity that you know, and the psychopathological framework would be considered addiction and we know that chronic let's say substance use changes by generic epigenetic, you know consequences which then in terms because that is a fundamental substrate and my experience that composes my conscious awareness, but then kind of create.

27:49
A loop and I think that in some ways as I'm thinking about it out loud perhaps when we think about addiction, you know, if I use that as a framework, then it really is the that recurrent nature because there is as a response to my experience. I'm engaging in the world in the way through either mitigate negative feelings or to go towards positive, you know, experiences however as I engaged those changes inadvertently.

28:22
I'm sorry those actions. Inadvertently have consequences on my genetic material or by a way of epi genetic changes or you know, and as it relates to amphetamines and alcohol and things like that, it actually causes structural changes at the level of the neuron which as we already said all of those elements make up your conscious awareness, so therefore you're actually shifting your your conscious state and so I don't know I guess I will post it back to you whether you would agree with.

28:58

29:33
D so yeah, it's a it's a rigorous philosophical and and scientific areas the extra can you just clear aside are you are you? Are you including the world of interacting and getting feedback from others or human relations or interacting with the world and is that part of your question as to whether consciousness has an effect or not or are you are you thinking of it in a different sense?

30:05
I'll put all my cards on the table, so um some years ago, maybe 10. I was yeah it had I been asked I would have said that I subscribed to Epiphany. Them it's a was at the time less so now but it was at the time the majority view in cognitive sciences just given that neurons operate at the level of classical mechanics classical mechanics as deterministic neurons will interact according to the laws of physics and therefore since physics when we discovered that cells are characterizable in terms of physics at the level not.

30:54
Only of their sort of biophysiology but also in terms of their electrodynamics it basically begotten although this had existed previously and philosophy that this is a sort of clockwork biological machine and any experience can't interfere with physics and this appeals to the classic Cartesian, you know, the question of the classic mind body problem how does a non-physical experience interact with?

31:29
You know, physical a physical substrate and effective so can I yeah that would yeah sure go ahead so I want to respond to this so I read a book that that addressed this this exact thing that this brought up but but I just want to point out that that's sort of like what's implied in what you're saying is that consciousness is a non-physical activity and and I can't possibly agree with that so if I so okay, so the book was called, That.

32:04
That I believe you would enjoy reading is called the narrow basis of free will criteria causation by Peter Ulrich C The Peter in the last name is TSC. So so basically, he he attacks the problem of how consciousness can influence the world. It's it's a new argument. It's um, he examines the biophysics of synapses and neurons and neurostircuits and he proposes an idea for how a neurosurgeon can consider.

32:39
How neurons can detect information as coincidence patterns you know like he being learning and neurosurgery can consider that information. And the reason for consciousness the reason for a conscious experience would be like, you know, if your face of problem that's too complex for your unconscious mind to solve and it you need to integrate so much information that it becomes conscious and then if if it's then if it's then so the the purpose the role of being conscious would be to dissolve a higher level problems in the context of higher level coordination.

33:13
That wouldn't be possible with lower level brain activity and and then the result of your conscious considerations would be your your actions and all these would be physical processes. So so in that sense if his work is correct, then that would mean that you're here, you're consciousness is not passive but it's an essential role to making.

33:39
Complex decisions that are there of a higher order and and then that that directly affects your actions. Absolutely. And so something died I don't know if you called this but the sort of entree to my description was it had you are asking ten years ago. So that was my position and it's a fairly common position and called to science and but as I said, perhaps less common but per David Chalmers more or less at one point was the sort of standard view in.

34:14
Neuroscience what changed my view yes exactly. In line with the view that you suggest was a really another chain of reasoning but it arrives at more or less the same place and it was simply to notice that the moment that you are talking about consciousness you are consciousness is exerting causation in the world.

34:42
You give a seminar unconsciousness and hundreds of people come they are not coming because consciousness has no. Effect on the world but more to the case our entire moral universe appears to be ordinated according to our scription of the presence of consciousness in particular entities. So, you know torturing a human being generally there's a wide consensus that this is a this is a moral ill but torturing a old chair or a rock doesn't recruit the same kind of moral concerns and on that basis alone the fact that we consider.

35:24
For instance when we look at end of life for people in vegetative states, the key component that we consider is not is this a human being is their blood flowing is the basic physiology running is is their consciousness resident. It very very clearly long before we get to neurons and their interrelationship with potential states.

35:50
At the basic level that you can access just from a operating in the world as a moral agent consciousness seems very much to be. Involved in the causal trade about. Of course it changes our world. May just I mean from a figure point of view this implies that I mean, we haven't found anything in the universe that has it.

36:16
It will love its own. I mean this goes back to the philosophical problem of really which I do not believe as a determinist exists at all. We just haven't understood it but as I said in must imply that okay, so our brain is something magical that is. Something different from everything else in the universe and I cannot just fathom that.

36:47
And yeah. Um, but I actually am the topic. I just want to go back to to what we learned from the water who taught us that five percent of all our cyclopentades. Sorry excited to do but but anyway. It's that is true. Do anyone of you thought about this having a evolutionary aspect or is just a disorder?

37:28
Coming just affect the psychopathic or sociopathic attendance is have a function in insight as it's say about 40 to 30 people. Evolutionary. Many have been suggested but maybe someone knows more about this than I do but if not I'll get to answer. I know a bit more about psychopathy and animals more than human beings.

38:02
Which I evolutionarily there were more um, many hundreds of years ago, um, so I do know that um, although I would have to touch up things research more to discover the frequency, although there's. Almost like sharks. Um and also wasps that essentially are almost entirely psychopaths yeah. I didn't know they have the um span of empathy among them but.

38:42
As I thought sorry, sorry sorry I could answer a little bit because I got my start in like psychology and AI by studying extreme human behavior so I could answer the question the texture. I think you could probably try to answer first and I can jump in okay, yeah just I'll give a refund soon yeah if you if you know a lot about this, you'll fill it a bunch of blanks, so yes, of course evolutionarily the known pitfalls are.

39:17
That you can just come up with a narrative which would be maybe it was the case that it you know, blah blah some circumstances it was useful, you know to have low empathy and not care for others and your be selfish or whatever it is, but yeah there seem to be some likely benefits it's worth remembering that for a condition like psychopathy you have well this is an argument which is not completely settled but that you have gradations on.

39:52
Of basically the expression of psychopathy and so it like for instance certain pathologies like schizophrenia, it's theorized that lesser expression of the phenotype is actually highly adaptive per schizophrenalism, but just a few places where in the modern day as psychopathy appears to confer benefits and then you don't have to track too far back to an evolutionary circumstance to imagine how.

40:27
You very small quantities this may have offered some advantage so when you look at certain professions surgeons lawyers astronauts test pilots special forces, you have rather high levels of psychopathy or tradecoff traits of psychopathy and so the interesting things here are well known that under conditions of stress psychopaths tend to be less deflected.

41:02
In their attentional states, so it's not that they don't feel fear it's just the best spotlight of attention narrows to task in a way that is adaptive rather than being deflected constantly per the complex experience that people have on the conditions of fear with a panic so you know for test pilots for instance that are in situations where you know, they're pushing a plane to the envelope of its abilities, they need to retain a particular sort of concentration and focus on tasks.

41:37
Which yeah seems to be beneficial in a different way with surgeons the same kind of steadiness of hand appears to be yeah, very very very useful two things being wrapped together there it may be that a psychopath may feel less of the moral responsibility for if it is you know, that they kill a person accidentally this could be maladaptive if they are you know unsure in their actions.

42:12
Um yeah there's a few traits there in the modern day which you don't have to reason back kick far to things but those were likely that have been all sorts of societies, okay, thank you for the answer. I kind of want to stir away from that. I feel like we're drifting a little bit into psychology and sociology a little bit.

42:31
I want to go back to a neuroscience and and AI finding thank you thank you like the that were through the and I think it's very very good answer. I wanted to ask so someone mentioned that a paper about it's about about. Using psychedelic drugs and and that having some effect on on the brain in terms of neurogenesis and I read this paper on basically a new study of an Alzheimer's where they induced new proteins synthesis in in that had a positive result in animals with the animals memory immediately improved it's like a lot of focus has gone on the the role of the the plaques that are they're in the brain and the figure where they're called, but but this took it, you know, this was like a totally different approach like hey, what if we just improved the new protein since this which is?

43:21
Involved with long-term potentiation and and and just for memory recall because I didn't really think of of LTP as something that would be necessary for memory recall right you I like it seems it when when I read it, I don't know if other people had this, um this idea too that it was just necessary for you need a new protein to store a long-term memory, but but this suggests you need a new pro you need a new protein to retrieve a long-term memory and that's sort of a novel idea, but but I love to hear from the neuroscientists about maybe sort of.

43:55
You know, do you know of anything did what induces new proteins is this you can can psychedelics and neurode and you know new neurogenesis a good imposing. I think people can take it from there. You know, I'm back at the right time protein synthesis. I think you know from basic biological principles comes from just like DNA transcription and translation at the ribosomes so you know, maybe there could be some you know at the genetic things going on maybe there are certain, you know receptor activations that cause downstream signaling in neurons, especially in.

44:48
G protein coupled receptors in which. Sorry if I was interrupted in my my phone alarm went off yeah psychedelics work on the serotonin to a receptor primarily which is a IG protein coupled receptor and you protein coupled receptors have secondary signaling inside of the cell and is possible that these secondary signaling activate a cascade of molecular signalers that might you know call modified the expression of some DNA and the expression of DNA basically, I think almost all functions of DNA.

45:27
Are expressed through proteins synthesis at the right at the ribosomes. So, alright. Yeah. And I was just gonna chime in. Yeah Ramsey's right. But as it relates to neurode neuroactive protein synthesis for the person that LTP or LTD for that matter. It's a pretty cynical mechanism that has been known for about probably 40 years now.

45:55
But essentially it's related and it's related to presynaptic. Activity. And so we can actually induce it artificially protein synthesis by either mechanically or using optogenetics to stimulate the presynaptic terminal and essentially what happens at that post synaptic in the the part of the neuron that's budding, you know, where we decide to stimulate essentially that induces increased calcium concentration and that as Ramsey alluded to their proteins there or we talk about and and, Glutamate receptors that are specialized for this kind of technique activity and it induces second secondary changes that has the effect of gene transcription and translation of these modified protein receptors that are uniquely tethered to that neuron and that terminal such that activity becomes coupled.

47:04
So it's sort of like birth this term of you know cells that fire together wire together and I just wanted to add that that. Actually happened that also happens I should say and the limbic limbic areas and the consequence of that is what we see as PTSD like phenomenon where an external stimulus which normally would you know, cause you to jump causes this, you know after the LTP has taken place causes a huge physiological response and and it's thought to be fundamental a fundamental mechanism to how traumatic experiences can persist long after, you know, Even the remote memory of it has has ceased and so on.

47:50
It's quite interesting. 

48:07
Good question. I'm not really sure. Difficult to know I actually want to ask a question showed about your example about the olfactory epigenetic effect and the association. So that's different from typical epigenetic effects where you have something like, you know, an increased propensity to to vigilance or you know anxiety.

48:35
That's a very very specific and as I understood from your explanation of the experiment. It's a very very specifically targeted. Of aversiveness to a very particular olfactory stimulus, right so it's difficult to explain that in the classic terms of you know, the release of glutaucrates impacting or causing a decrease in the volume of let's say the amygdala or other parts of the brain relevant to the fear response, let's say it just if I heard that you're recapitulation of the experiment correctly, that's an incredibly precise.

49:21
Response is that right yeah she was a beautiful set of experiments amazing controls because they showed that it was that particular odorant and they even isolated the specific molecules that compose that odorant and show that at the level of the olfactory sensory neuron receptor, but it was that precise transmission that has altered and caused the huge effect that persisted throughout generations and again that work is the the final author on that.

49:53
I'm sorry the first author is Brian dies you. DIAS and it was published in nature neuroscience the year escapes me, maybe 2015, but thanks. So so that's extraordinary and considering the mechanism for that being so targeted so you're basically saying that the glomeruli in the offspring was essentially modeled upon the change of the globular eye given the initial condition and that would seem you know at my hypothesis, there would be that it would likely involve if you said it involves a micro RNA signal.

50:42
Ing it would perhaps yeah good candidate for that would be extracellular vesicles which can cross the blood brain barrier and also the ML MRNA in these yeah messenger EVs can be guided to target as I understand it by non-coding DNA, but I it just have experience of this just you know ecology where this happens in tumor genesis, but per rhymes comments that this would.

51:17
Need to happen essentially at the level of the germline it would be extraordinary if I'm extracellular but extracellular vesicle could be guided in its delivery of mRNA to a precise target that would affect a precise population of of glomeruli it's extraordinary and it suggests not only inheritance and these epigenetic effects but also a potentially fantastically accurate modality for cures and therapies for.

51:52
About mental disorders where we able to harness it. I'm curious to be a false say. Yeah, I mean don't have much to add I can just say that you sound like one of the reviewers at nature they actually it's suggested those types of experiments and so the group wasn't able to do it so so yeah, it's the ongoing okay awesome, thank you.

52:21
Nice good question, so there's this researchers that's ongoing about it all okay and that it it's administration modifies GDNF and PDF expression in some brain regions and what they they they researched was the underlying mechanisms of evokines effects or on addictive behavior and self administration. Etc if you could explain please the GDNF and PDF.

53:09
Mechanisms and how how they are involved in circuitry, thank you.

53:26
So that's a pretty tough question. I don't know if um, if if anyone wants to take that on.

53:40
If you want to if you want to rephrase this obedience, go ahead. I got aside had something contributed if if unless we want to wait and get a response to our last question, okay, go ahead and and we'll think about the last question while you're talking. Sure um, so yeah this I've been waiting to get added for nearly two hours so there's been so many topics that I could address but maybe I'll ask you guys like I would you like I feel like I have things like sure on like theories of consciousness or or miss misadventures more like that that we're making here in this room about thinking about consciousness and also like frameworks for emotions, so I guess you can choose which topic you could care for me to try not.

54:34
I love to be corrected so anything you choose from my point of view learn about other people. Well I mean I think what's kind of funnier system I'm gonna go it's like we were talking about psychopathology and then that was designed that that was a bit off topic and so we launched into a diversion to neurogenesis and secondary circulatory protein coupled receptors of ribosome and chances rational memories and I don't really see how this like I don't think we're gonna make much progress like like what what's the strategy here it's like what if we understand enough about the low level details of neurobiology that we're going to have a better thing of consciousness, like I don't think it's going to work out that way.

55:13
I think we're operating at the wrong way up. Structured. So what I propose is that like the the problem with with like even thinking about consciousness is that we get talking about it like it's like the single thing and it's not there's like a lot of disparate ideas bundled up in this in this work and so like, you know, what can make a problem seem really hard in mysterious is that if you wrongly insist that something is simple then it remains a mystery because you're actually facing an intricate problem and you're unlikely to find a path towards solving it until you recognize how complex it is and so.

55:51
Like I think that begins with unpacking this the suitcase word consciousness and like like anyone just think for a moment about what are you conscious of right now just like could pick something like you're you're conscious of my voice you may be conscious of a coffee cup on the table in front of you you're maybe conscious of like the response that you're got you're putting together and to to to what I'm saying here like there's a lot of different things there right so like part of it is like like reaction like it's part of being conscious of things this is like we react to our And we recognize things we we characterize things there's aspects of attention and attentional control but we imagine things like we we make decisions we recall things we you know, we select among alternatives like we we plan like for future behaviors there's emotional elements there's all kinds of different types of representational components, like language is involved, you know, there's there's like anticipation and in reasoning and intention and reflection and self-reflection and so like if we keep talking, About this thing like it's one thing that we're trying to find or solve or define or measure we're just never could have figured out because people have been making this mistake for hundreds of years and so I disagree and I believe it's your you you everybody who started new residence that that can unlock the classic problem of really will with its still a magical object that is completely unexpendable and I think.

57:33
I believe that's the root kill here to understand consciousness. I mean, what is it really okay what what kind?

57:48
Seems like a mystery because like if you think about it, it's like a thing like, Like intuition willpower creativity, you know free will that like we think about it like it's something because it's like the paradox of consciousness is that like the more consciousness like you have the more layers of processes that divide you from the world and so like you get progressively distance from the external world in a way that makes you feel like we inhabit some mental world and and it's it's somehow like this duelist idea that that were it's like metaphysical or something and it and it's not.

58:28
All. You know a problem we don't have sophisticated enough. Sorry.

58:37
Yeah and maybe maybe just like push back on one of the max criticisms. Or I could drill down into I don't know what what a theory of a framework for emotion might look like it and like a proper model of consciousness, well, okay, yeah max. I hear you I hear you I just want to add that.

58:56
I don't think you know much of the conversation in this room has been strictly constrained to the topic of the room in the title. I think you know, we started talking about consciousness and kind of just like went on like a free flow about like in assortment of different neuroscience topics, you know, kind of just like, you know, what what do we found interesting to talk about so um, yeah, I agree with you.

59:19
In the sense that you know, like being sick about probably is not gonna you know, leave to you know, much progress and a consciousness understands, you know more you know macro macro level abstraction to look at you know, some of the higher order mechanisms that are entailed but that being said I the the the room has kind of been kind of like a free for all where we're just like saying whatever we find interesting and sharing our research sharing, you know stuff that we like and yeah, if you if you would like,

I agree I just wanted to set the context of what the definition of consciousness was at least a couple of hours ago and so I think Paul had had really restricted the definition because I think the underlying question was posed to those who study near. Neuroscience and others how can we get to a point where we can dissect and study experimentally and to get close to what are the elements fundamental to consciousness that we call consciousness which in this context was the perceptual experience like he kept it very sort of, you know, just bare bones it's just the perceptual experiences and so I think that's that was the implicit definition that some of us were going off of but I absolutely also welcomed so I, Take phone I think for it I do but I also believe that should go through the root cause which is always philosophy, but yes, I agree it was very stringent conversation, which I admired right and like when you frame it that way you invite this kind of dualistic idea right like so I see a lamp in this room and that perception seems utterly simple to me, it's so direct in media like this that the process seems quite irreducible and so there's this idea of like quality and it's like this irreducible sensation, but that's not how things work.

01:01:39
Right? Like when you look at something and you see what it is like today we know that there's much more involved in what actually happens when you see a lamp like involves processes and many parts of the brain and many billions of neurons and like like so that that people frame it like there's this idea that like that that I look and I see and it's like a movie and so how does this observer work and it's like dualism we can't explain it, but really we know that like a lot about perception is that it's not simple and direct it's complex and indirect like signals come into the eyes and the ears and the nose and the skin and they under.

01:02:14
Go many transformations and there are bottom up signals that interact with top-down signals and the signals reach many different parts of the brain and what emerges. Isn't as simple image for someone to watch but a multi-layered set multi-layered sets of descriptions infused with memories and assumptions and expectations and so like when we compare it to like a movie and like and think about perception that way like like the chambers idea of like the hard problem of consciousness it's like comparing a Tesla to a brick and then looking for some new physics to try to explain how a dumb brick can move around and avoid obstacles it's like this the simple and direct experience the perception is very deceptive and in like, you know, it's like how a computer user interface.

01:02:59
Hides a lot of the complexity when you drag a file into the trashcan and you think that there's nothing more to it but you're unaware of the conflicts of machinery and processes happening behind machines, so I maybe I can talk for for a minute or a minute and a half.

01:03:13
I just wanted to sort of talk about the movie the max is talking about it's not it's not as simple movie right the movie of consciousness he if you I don't know if you're inside or outside right now, but you maybe you can perceive it a space around yourself and you can perceive yourself and and say you have these you know, this this representation.

01:03:34
Of of the world and and yourself in the world or yourself as part of it and and the movie, you know, I imagine that fundamentally it's it's made out of frequency patterns and and and spatial patterns that that these are just a building blocks of of representations of visual auditory smell representations feeling representations, it's all temporal spatial patterns that and in we have a whole bunch of reoccurring temporal spatial patterns in the brain the brain is constant.

01:04:09
Ly transmitting a temple spatial patent all over the place. I think that you know that when we talk about something is small as you know, the the the expression of of obedience, you know, or or a cortisol and the case of like someone quit indicating the case of this ayahuasca study or DMT study, you know that I think there's a there's a relevance to understanding what consciousness is and a mechanical way in terms of how that is affecting the the temple.

01:04:44
Frequency. Your patterns and certain areas of your brain and how that might alter the the conscious experience and that is that's eventually relevant to building conscious AI. So all of these might so might take is that all these microbiome microbiological topics are ultimately related to sentient AI if we can understand their effects in terms of their temple spatial frequency patterns and how they're changing these the state of your conscious experience, which is a highly coupled.

01:05:19
Of temple spatial patterns perhaps And I think I don't know if it was shared or someone else who was talking about how you know the difference between sort of like in the context of anesthesia the difference between conscious and unconscious and how different regions became uncomfortable. I definitely if someone remembers that I definitely like them to sort of sort of recap that if they can because it but but but but I'll go ahead and stop there and and so I just wanted to tie that as a sort of different interpretation of the past events and then Yeah, I'll go ahead and stop playing and people can take it to different way.

01:05:57
S.

01:06:04
I can. You just gave and correct me if I'm wrong but a rather elegant eloquent sketch of hierarchical predictive coding and how the notion of the simplistic like stimulus response, you know video imagine, you know, V1 V2, we work out that we're looking at something again to an iPhone screen that the perception is nothing at all like that.

01:06:28
And if that was what you meant by your description, I absolutely agree and my interest then would be is how you think. This speaks to or answers or potentially unseats or even just contextualizes. David traumas quote unquote hard problem or whether you even accept that that problem is hard but yeah, I I thought that was elegant sketch assuming that I understood it but yeah, I've used to know how you think that relates to then forming an idea of a rigorous view of what consciousness is and where it occurs.

01:07:10
But well yeah, I mean, I feel like the the problem that they're making is that there's the the notion of qualia is that like it's irreducible right like this sensation of red that I have is is irreducible and and if you think that then then you're just stuck and and I think we have no reason to to think that because like like what like even some sensation like like the color red it it's it's it's you can break it down.

01:07:40
It's like it's like I said, there's multi-layered sets of descriptions that like you. Up see red and really in isolation Like there's some David Engelman did some interesting There's a great video that wired magazine Patel about showing how like you can set up these kind of visual illusions where you show two colors that are the same but they look totally different because they have like different colors around them and it's like if you there's certain experiments whereas you show some of the two colors they can't really tell which colors they are until they need like at least three colors, so like if you've if you just show it to them, they kind of like well is that yellow or blue?

01:08:18
I can't really tell and if you put it on a table and Contacts with other things then like the the colors shift. And so like if this idea of red is like this irreducible thing then how do you explain that and like the way that we explain it is that it's not irreducible and not this these sets of descriptions of for like a color are built up from from relations with other colors and and so I just wanted to point out that um that I it's it's a bit so there's been a sort of counter argument against the irreducibility of qualia and and the possibility that of magical free choice and I feel like you know, um, those are a little bit like strawmen arguments because I don't think anybody in this room is arguing that we've magical choice and and I don't think anyone in this room is arguing that quality is a reducible so I mean, you can make the argument that I just don't take anyone as arguing against you.

01:09:11
That's part of like the hard problem. I've got this is that they feel like quality is unexplainable and so I feel like the part of the the kind of counterfeit to to those arguments is that you can think like the way we have other reasons to believe that quality is is not like this irreducible thing, you are points hmm so I think they're yeah, you mentioned actually a very good thing and I actually less also the the the topic for the angle I tackle in.

01:09:46
Commercials is a study so I think we can simply buy into some kind of information theory problems. So let's say we have perception and some of the perception is us conscious. So we have perception and also have conscious perceptions and we know perception is so complicated. So anything you see it actually there are a lot of unconscious processing going out but something we can only see is now simple and also you say like it reducible.

01:10:21
Yeah something like that. So from information perspective we can say there is a lot of information processing going on underlying that consciousness but what is the only part of those information can show in your conscious content? So actually so this is actually the angle we can tackle the consciousness in in from from like the recently we our team proposed information theory of consciousness some.

01:10:56
Want to say is okay, so we know from neuroscience we know perception is very complicated and involved a lot of information okay, so how can we don't feel that kind of information why we only feel about Qualia only feel about very little about those underlying processes, so there must be some information up area between our conscious process and those from microscopic information processing so then we can use information theory to say okay, so.

01:11:31
Those microscopic processing is kind of a block from some conscious process but how is it possible because we know the this macro process over neuron processing is moving by the microscopic process, so then we can propose okay micros and information area there so we can. Yeah I'm not sure if I understand what what you're saying 100% but but I think basically if if we were able to actually look at our own brain, you know from the inside, you know, it's just too much information and and we have limited resources because you need to brain bigger than your own brain to be able to under to to comprehend your your brain right so so instead we have kind of very limited access because like it wouldn't make sense for us to look at like, you know a hundred trillion in connections and then an understand what's going on in our environment, so instead like like, We we get we operate a very high level of abstraction right and and those lower level processes they're they're not really available for us to inspect and things for for various to be obvious reasons.

01:12:41
I think about like our own ability to understand it and like a resources and things so if you think about like like how do you explain how you balance on a bicycle it's like we can't really explain that in words because this lower level machinery that's slick involved in our kind of motor neurons and balance and stuff like that like they they speak very narrow specialized languages and Like and are higher level language centers are abstracted from these things but you know, maybe six layers of a removed in and so like even if they could talk to them, they just wouldn't understand their language because their vocabulary isn't big enough to draw analogies with like a natural human language and stuff and so basically that's what that's so we're just kind of sealed off from these things.

01:13:24
I'm not sure if if I'm really addressing the topic that you brought up or not now yeah if that is extremely accurate what with the velocity and style you're saying. Is that we actually understand each other completely the reason why we don't understand it each other is because our language is to inaccurate yeah.

01:13:57
So. That's exactly how our surgery won't try to insult so we in our paper we call this is a scale problem of consciousness so which means we have so a lot of microscopic processes and yeah as you say we have sold multi level of the level of distractions and then they come to our conscious content so how can we reconcile this so we the conscious content is superving by this stuff from the microscopic, but we still cannot feel those microscopic.

01:14:33
We can only feel those microscopic things in our conscious content, so to solve this problem we propose there is some there there must be information closed in the conscious process to the microscope process, so the the idea is simple so even you are affected by so for example conscious process is going to affect by the microscope process, but these process can still be informationally close means it can be the transfer entropy the information from microscopy to macroscopic can.

01:15:08
Still be blocked the the condition is the macroscope will be processed itself can form it a self-predictable process, so which means like the if this is exactly like the Newton and contact board so if we look good into the microscope process in this universe, we know everything is under content mechanism and but we still can use Newton's physics to describe how our work in the macroscopic levels because Newton's physics can very well predict and also explain everything in the macroscopy level.

01:15:43
And this is the same as consciousness so consciousness we you as we say it's respect we spoke in a very abstract level so but it is information process even is a cellular level or even like phantom levels, so I I I have a it's kind of fencible theory if I can make it a slight aggression it's like so I mean, when what what would it be okay if I just spoke to aces point would you mind that match before you know, Beside if that's okay yes so basically that's I see the analogy there with quantum care here and says you approach classical mechanics and you reach a world where in terrible intelligibility and predictable causation at that makes sense as a analogy do you have any particular purchase on the evolution benefit that is suggested by consciousness per that rubric so yeah just I tend always when looking at, Human behaviors to potential evolution well tinbergens for questions, so how did this evolve and what was the adaptive value and it's ontology etc, so just your theory suggested anything about that and that's thank you very much for going to the time and no problem.

01:17:14
Exactly. So the first thing I have said is also the conscious process is information not closed. And the second thing is actually is about how it is close information up close information calls process how it can interact with environments. So we utilize the concept of we call it non-trivial information calls.

01:17:38
So which means even you have a system this informationally caused but it's still can mimic the environment dynamic and interact with the dynamic. So the information in the, Information closest system because we say is nontrivial and how this is about the evolution. So the importance is we interact with microscopic objects like other animals or like the the everything in a new classic physics.

01:18:08
So those macroscopic objects we interact so we need to build some model of this method of macro in macro objects or a macro environment. So to do that, we can form an information only close process that is non-trivial and this. Is it's modeling of the macroscopic object so that.

01:18:28
I don't need. Nauseous content always only have the macroscopic objects not we cannot see the contents we cannot see the atoms in our even like even we can receive the photos on but we still seemingly slow fixing because this conscious process is modeling the macroscopic environment change so that's what evolutionally advantage can also fit our steering what are that we're at the neuro correlates of a macros of the macroscopic changes that you're talking about if it's not about.

01:19:05
A neuron firing at one point in in your analysis of of the of the microscopic brain that does there are macroscopic things happening. So we have this for example, let's say we have single neurons but in single neurons is fires like every second like 10 times 10 hurts around 1000s, but you cannot feel that right?

01:19:33
So somehow this like kind of action potential or membrane potential change. You cannot feel but if we get there like several neurons together, and then we have a population neurons and then the encoding information in code in the population neurons is more more like what you. Feel content. And this is a special we have with all it costs branding and also we have also like a template right like the you cannot feel a single of your own firing but you can feel like a firing rate 200 stands.

01:20:11
So it's somehow the information close to our conscious content is not like the very Microscale soft topics. It's not a single neurofiring. It's not a single neural activity, but some kind of macro variable host grants from. The. I will scoping processes. So we call it this skill problem because somehow our conscious content is not it's not just about it's not all the microscopic content but some macroscopic contents.

01:20:42
So but what kind of metroscopic content can enter our conscious context then does that we've involved so the the criteria or this you can say a more like a hypothesis is the some macroscopic content itself can form some informationally closed process, so like a Newton's physics as a. The example itself a new test physics doesn't care about any microscopic interaction, right?

01:21:10
So but it still can describe the whole physics board in the macroscopic levels. So this this physic process in the macroscopic dutens physics become informational caused. So I started pointing so our hypothesis is our brand also can form some macroscopic process is information on course and the point is the macroscopy process is kind of virtual process.

01:21:37
It's not real but it still. Repents the information that need to be a work in the microscopic level. So very important since here is we in our series we don't think consciousness is belong to some specific neuron or some specific bread area but some macro scope process in the bread and of course this did lead to some practical difficulty to search like the process but we are.

01:22:14
We are working on this and we generate to develop some mathematical tools to to like to have a optimal possibility to have to detect this kind of information cause process and also have done trivial information about environments. So this is mathematically and forced viable. So we are working on this I'm due with that interview.

01:22:40
I just want to check in here that you know, consciousness and the content of consciousness needs to be some type of dynamic structure. This happening within the neurolecularity grain and not not something this is you know particular types of neurons or particular ways that they fire It's a little bit like you know if you imagine a video game, you know a three-dimensional video game and that game is depicting, you know an object on the screen, you know, there's some room there's some walls or bricks in the walls.

01:23:08
I did depicting on the screen but you can say that that object being depicted on the screen are like certain pixels on the on the video array, but really the object conceptually is something inside the video game, you know, as there's some kind of structural model of that object.

01:23:23
So then you could ask, Okay well we'll push traffic there's a responsible for that the experience the the rendering of that of that that you know cube for example on the screen was not like they're particularly transistors the responsible it's not particular ways, the transistors are switching not to clear logic cases not even particular memory cells.

01:23:39
It's something about the whole scene structure and the way that skin structure is engaging with an interactive environment that's creating that abstract kind of an object and consciousness could be working in a similar way. Yes information this dynamic that's taking place within the brain and not any particular type of activity yes exactly that's what our space so the there's some way of we can say cos burning over say abstraction and then we can phone some microscopic objects or macroscopic concept and then if the those things the transition on can also objects is become informationally closed itself, then actually this process is kind of.

01:24:25
Online to those microscopic process and those microscopic lecture and transistor or any like pixels value pixel level things so it can totally work on macroscopic abstraction or you can say objects then so if it's information not close then that's the our hypothesis so yeah yeah sir I just had a question, um, how how is what your positing here different from a person who would say okay by your metric consciousness is just the subjective it's.

01:25:00
Experience of human physiology because I think physiology as a foundational concept as a principal really is how things are as you're defining the microscopic elements. Transition or translate into macroscopic elements, like as you were talking I was thinking about something as simple as a hydro as a proton that our cells we cannot necessarily detect our pH for example, but we do have specialized regions of the brain known as circumventricular organs such as area call area pastryma that have that are specialized and highly sensitive to ask acidity or pH concentration such that as it dips below a certain threshold you have.

01:25:49
The subjective experience of filling unwell a filling nauseous and that many studies and many neuroscientists throughout time specifically sensory neuroscientists. I'd have to say have dedicated their careers to exploring what is the level of concentration that we can tweak the blood level to where we can enact a change in the person's inner subjective experience and there's been a lot of elegant work being done with the advent of optical tools, so I'll go genetics where you can essentially comment gear.

01:26:24
The firing rate of neurons and.

01:26:33
Shown really elegant work where you can invent correlations between the number of neurons and. The fire and rate of those neurons and the voracious nature of which animal. Independent of its fasted or stated states and so when I think of that it really sounds like perhaps what you're saying is that consciousness is embedded somehow.

01:27:03
Experience. Yes, you're right and actually this question is very good, so for example.

01:27:15
Levels. Come right so like maybe I should level football spaces processes going up.

01:27:29
Or just come here we only feel about some like the I'm sick. I'm not I don't feel well but sometimes I feel well okay so you can imagine this consciousness information in the conscious content is quite low-dimensional so like for example. I'm good and bad this kind of just one-dimensional if you want to add something like that, oh okay.

01:27:56
I have two different kind of sick okay, then you add another dimension so you can. Actually use.

01:28:05
Information in your. And another thing is okay, you can also use information to theory to quantify like the pH level fluctuation or even neural fluctuation so it's very high dimensional so the fact here we can see is so we have high dimensional neurophysiological information space but we only have very low dimensional the information in the conscious content, so there must be some close branding or abstraction between the microscopic to the microscopic and then, The next question is of course, then how can we detect or okay we know this is affect our how can we detect oh how can we compute from a Microsoft physiological majors what we can get to get this close brand membership conscious content, and so that's the the the thing I'm working on sorry.

01:29:11
Oh yes okay I'm in Tokyo yeah maybe we should yeah, let's hang out sometime out other yeah. I wanted to yeah earlier I wanted to suggest some some kind of fenceful idea but I'm like so we're talking about like at the high level like we can't we don't really have direct access to these low-level, you know sub capabilities and things like that, well there's some research with like, you know with psychedelics and environment FMRIs that show like like certain, you know, chemical psychedelic drugs allowed like certain parts of the brain to like connect.

01:29:46
Normally connected and things like that and so yeah I have some maybe silly theory that like some common experiences that people who take DMT reports is like that there's these are kind of aliens or machines like that kind of, you know enter their consciousness and try to communicate with them and things like that and I'm and so the idea is that, you know, maybe parts of the brain are connected to other parts of the brain, but they're incapable of of understanding each other because they're just so foreign and and they're you know, that the way that they're they're kind of languages.

01:30:21
Research are just you know they don't map to each other and so maybe what people are experiencing is just they're kind of accessing some lower level machinery of their own brain but they're not unable to make any sense of it and it feels like like some kind of, you know extraterrestrial in their head right then I guess the way I think about what you're doing is if you if you take this sort of idea, I'm not sure I mean when my nasa says macro I guess I think of like a higher levels of abstraction kind of structural obstructions and maybe they sort of many different layers abstractions and talk about abstractions kind of going out of their activity and course that Higher level abstraction more differently so it is sort of a larger kit as they scale construct but then if you imagine that these there are activity clothes that are carrying information moving around the brain and activity networks or you know, forward and backward propagation that if psychedelics are sort of modulating the flow that information or causing information to be routed through a part of the brain that is not normally routed through then that might you know, create sort of an experiences that kind of reinterpret what's going on so you know, there's a part of this brain that's Focused on three of mind that is how you sort of model the goals and intentions and intent of another and yet you could imagine that somehow you're activities being flowed through that area, it could get reinterpreted as the kind of benevolent conscious energies that people say the experience under DMT this is sort of, you know, kind of a just so sorry about looking yeah that makes sense that some sort of useful matches would be synthesized just intended to explain yet was a brilliant experience.

01:32:12
I want to ask one challenge and then a question so yes you said the returning mechanics doesn't really care about microscopic effects but we know that the human vision can detect a single photon especially in the instance where it's primed by the previous single photon and so that level of detection and as shrubs same true also of false action microscopic events can actually influence.

01:32:47
State and valence and reducing to understand how your theory managed to cause grain macroscopic or sorry microscopic events into this course grain macroscopic awareness, then relate also when we think about the potential spotlight in its recruitment according to things regards stadiums to adapt to reward. S in the world how does your theory deal with behavior as potential spotlight consciousness shifts towards not whether something is sufficient in its magnitude to recruit consciousness awareness but whether it is of salience, let's say in the simple case to survival right so in many cases that might be sufficient to have a generalized picture of the world and it's causing economical and dissolving sense, but what about the instance where you need to pay there?

01:33:49
Would be. Fine great and sustained attention to thin slice information. If I mean what one aspect of that is like what we you know notice like the amygdala hijacked right like when the electrode is kind of moderatory for threats and and it has this ability to shut down the the prefrontal cortex, right?

01:34:10
Like there's there's more connections from the PFC back. So it just does that kind of address some of the concerns it's like you might be preoccupied with certain things but then when there's a threat it's like this kind of more lower level permit of mammalian part of your brain kind of takes over and it preamps your current.

01:34:30
Goals and interests in order to prioritize this skateboard or preparing you for for authenticity. I know that in pop psychology people say that I think the problem of course makes me live and well and maybe the amygdala is sort of steering what goals in court, but as I said, I know that there the people who talk about this amigo hijacked concept that in quote of you know, popular psychology, but on the topic of like photon, you know being able to detect a single photon.

01:35:01
I mean a sensory signal can be amplified. You know in the same way that a photo multiplier and astronomy can amplify a single photon and make it visible just by recruiting more and more neurons to represent that and source maybe that's only thinking about that phenomenon. Yeah absolutely signals certainly can be a regulated and no question but yes so so that question so Aces essential contention was that microscopic effects are just not taking into consideration and so yeah, that was my question and why I oppose the notion of a microscopic effect.

01:35:40
Which can be upgraded and recruited tension and but then also in the case of behavior. I've just curious does your theory speak to behavior and it's recruitment of consciousness not relative to the physicality or whether something warrants conscious representation by dim to it's perceptual scale but it's saying this both to participate.

01:36:07
I think it's also possible to perceptual and also actually but to answer your first question, of course it's important but you can amplify it as a symbol but let's test maybe put in a more like a stifle physics stack of physical contacts. So in the experiment you can show people how sounds some some lights right and that like intensity of life you can do the justice it then eventually you can find a stretch of that sound like, Can enter your conscious context but below stretch or you cannot.

01:36:46
So in our theory, this is the very simple it's just like the close burning the way the cross planning to form this information close the process at microscope with level whether it consider these kind of intensity and how much neuron wills in this in this process and then if it's enough of if the deformation is big depict enough, then of course it the potentially the course grounding process sorry the coast grinding from the microscope into the macroscopic can be called.

01:37:17
Into the conscious context. So that's the the first thing. And the second thing is perception is one thing. Of course action is wisely. So we have the amount of action of actually related things about a consciousness like a we have intention less conscious content. We have kind of some kind of free will let's also conscious content.

01:37:37
And I want to say that attention is actually also a one kind of action. But it's just just work internally. So, so why don't action content is our what was ocean? Action information is also involved in conscious counter. So we haven't published these part of paper, but I can simply saying that to form the information only closed the process and with nontrivial information about the environment then which means you need to model your also not only the environment dynamic, but also your actions how your actions affect the environment a transition.

01:38:19
So the the information about your action is also part of the information or the closed process. So, that's why we can feel. All right actually our intentions even our attention. Yeah. Great. Thank you. Notation. So when I look at the SFMRI images and so on they they seem to rough two macro and I come from physics so in astronomy, for example, every other advancement of instrumentation gave us so much more insight.

01:39:00
Is there an active area of refining the the image of the physical brain that goes to much more? Deeper scale. Is there an active research that you? Yes, maybe someone who is involved in research would like to speak to this but I can unless someone else would like to.

01:39:26

Okay. I'll tell you what I know but yes it is a huge problem and a highly really important problem to gaining purchase on actually the kind of questions that Acer was laying on the table where you're really looking at the transition of populations neurons and their precise firing range and so forth.

01:39:51
So I'll mention one strategy but it's one of many which actually involves traditional human dynamic modeling but, Basically then employees in a way which is if you like symmetric to the brain itself, it deploys basically dynamic causal modeling to over time establish or if you like draw out of the data deeper and richer levels of connectivity, so if you can predict and model the evolution of your boxes date, you can gain actually find the grain information about where the particular.

01:40:37
Connectivity the effective connectivity issuing from. And so when you combine that with the EG you get basically the cortical synchrony and the voxels and direction of functional connectivity which gives you eventually a fine-grained picture. So really what you're doing there is akin to the brain itself in many ways you are basically using a cross-modal binding of information to upgrade the, Precision that you can attribute to a signal and derive a richer information as to the causation apparent.

01:41:20
And so yes, that's no new technology but a customer use of existing technology with dynamic causal modeling to produce better data but yeah, that's just one strategy that's actually employed. Here reference if I wanted to look into this static. Yes. Okay, yes Google. If you Google call Christian KARL FRISTON and then just DCM dynamic causal modeling and in that search if you include GE.

01:42:17
Well, that strategy is used not only to analyze with great decisions as to the hidden space of causation, not only brain data, but healthy. One of the original actually credited as being the sort of progenitor of the boxing used in FMRI applied this the same mathematical precepts to epidemiological modeling and the model developed.

01:42:55
More of the other models that we had certain Europe for predicting even given sparse information as to particular mutations and all the relevant biophysiology and and UV incidence and so on so Karl forston FMRI GE Carl I think yes over some period during the pandemic rewrote the voxel modeling software to accommodate the implementation of multiple sources of.

01:43:30
Simultaneous measurement. So yeah, you should find it and find out through that. Are there other neuroscientists in the room? I see that Paul just left but I had a question for him.

01:43:45
I'm a nurse. Okay so like what Paul just said is that like this amygdala hijack idea, he said it's kind of like apocryphal I do from pop psychology but like like I just did a quick Google search and I'd have no problems finding tons of references to the idea in like journalists psychiatry and nurses other behavioral neuroscience, like say here's the court the prefrontal cortex shares extensive connections with the amygdala these structures are central to a neural system that processes emotional stimuli, especially negatively valenced stimuli, so.

01:44:22
Is this just other rubbish science that neuroscience is rejected or or not basically so just my comments on my own interpretation what he was saying so Daniel Goldman coined a term a means of a hijacked which comes from work. I think by Joseph adoo and it's the notion that it's a sort of binary state right you mean to learn a certain level hijacks or thinking and then you're in a totally different state and it's, Basically, you know, it's two different worlds or two different modes of being parachute on or off whereas yeah what we understand is that that is a great process and I think per share its comments that also at the level of the amygdala the initular is not just a fierce center a yeah Joseph would do our recently.

01:45:36
So yeah just a matter of degree basically.

01:46:12
Yeah to share some ideas about like ways like a framework for thinking about emotions but yeah, the the lady had asked the question already left the room that's what would be okay if I just ask so or I just mentioned that yes not just a question of degree but also a question of the quality right so that the amygdala is not just the fear center we understand the immigrant now as being involved in not only different sorts of responses relative to cons.

01:46:47
Ent. Some anxiety and fear but actually just the emotional arousal in general. So I shared couldn't speak to this idea probably more. Yeah more learners than I can but yeah, it's degree and kind. Well, yeah and I was just gonna add that. I was just going to add briefly that even as a relation to the concept that you're mentioning Max even at the level of the prefrontal cortex, we know that somatostatin interneurons GABAergic secreting neurons in the prefrontal cortex also respond.

01:47:22
Exquisitely to stressful stimuli and we also know that there are cortical releasing factor which are stress sensitive neurons that are embedded intrinsic within the prefrontal cortex that also respond exquisitely to stress and so you don't you need it even have a projection or a pathway specific mechanism to to describe why is it that in times of stress executive decisions capacity is hindered some of that mechanism is inherent and intrinsic to what's happened?

01:47:57
In the context of stress in the pre-frontal cortex Right this is this is kind of my sometimes. I feel like it's like maybe the wrong level of abstraction when we talk about the neurology because then we debate the kind of, you know minutiae of what's happening in neurons instead of like thinking about the overall kind of theory and framework of that we're talking about.

01:48:17
And so like like what idea which Marvin Minsky gives us is to to think about you know, the mind as a cloud of resources and what's happening with how emotions into the picture is that it's it's like it didn't even give. Moment some resources are turned on and other resources are kind of disabled and it's like maybe if you're having an elliptic seizure or some psychotic experience that like, you know too many kind of resources are simultaneously active where when it's not like a healthy state to be under something.

01:48:49
And so we can think of like like when you're angry, you know, there's like this diverse collection of mental states that are active which dispose you to maybe interpret an innocent gesture as a threat or to dispose you to kind of bias you to to. Have a more cavalier attitude toward decision making Like we find ourselves you know making my quick decisions without as much deep reflection as we might normally bring about the consequences and and some other mental resources like regarding maybe empathy toward others is kind of turned off, you know, like so if some Jehovah's witness comes to my door, you know, I might get in an angry mode where I'm a bit rude to them and and it's to to get them to to to fuck off right or like when you think of someone who knows like who's fallen in love, it's almost as if like, they're kind of running a new program, right?

01:49:41
It's like like, They're kind of goals and priorities have kind of shifted and and they're really enamored with this person right and. So yeah I mean that's that's the the basic idea is that you can think of you know a word like anger is like it's an abbreviation for this diverse collection of mental states and so it's it's a it's kind of like a modality or an attitude toward the world and so if we think about how can we have make a machine that has a motions well you can now you have a paradigm for for how to do that, you know, the machine has, you know, various different resources in like like maybe you have some mechanism to kind of shift shift things around so that The some some kind of attitudes and mindsets are active and and others are depressed are suppressed and then and then those different configurations so that this this machine can have kind of you know, different different biases than in a ways to think about different situations, right?

01:50:41
Stupid questions can achieve them. AI or consciousness without equal ego or personality. Yes, people regularly do during yeah psychedelic experiences and people report under meditation, so I never experienced ego death myself but in so much as I trust such people yeah seems possible. I'm so done it's a bit of a paradox so too because with true ego solution, it's like you lose your own ability to to be even aware that that's happening it's it's like so you're unable to like bring back any any specific memories of it because like like yeah the whole the whole system is kind of broken down in a way that that you don't have a any kind of stance it's not an actuation.

01:51:35
I mean, I would push back again yeah, you can't bring back memories from when you go to solution experience yeah. I think you can definitely take back memories from it. I agreed I had an experience and I did definitely remember that. I'm afterwards. Yeah it's not like people have had ego death experiences can't tell you about them, sometimes well, what will they maybe it's a bit of a delusion right like maybe your a brain is watching your be brain big be brain having a an ego dissolution but like it's not a total ego solution because the otherwise the a brain wouldn't have been involved.

01:52:12
I mean true ego dissolution would be like like death state right? I think I think we might be using different definitions of ego. I think the definition that is most cited in respect to parsing psychedelic. Experiences is a definition of ego that entails this concept of having a contained self that is a separate from the environment and that the product typical ego solution experience is defined by experiencing a sensation where the boundary between a person's self and the universe no longer is a boundary and it's also been described as a oceanic oneness.

01:52:56
So Max, I think you were saying you had a like a framework for emotion, but I didn't really like the neural correlates are that you know, some stuff is on and some stuff is off and it was at it. You know, that's sort of sort of a but. I'd love to awesome.

01:53:16
Max and extra question as well. A

01:53:25
layman's psychologist and philosophy in this situation or this is context. I mean. It's I mean speaking about a motion it has to be driven by motivation in some sort otherwise nothing will function but the topic of this room is this new residence and AI and can someone expand to a layman as me how we are in close.

01:54:02
To getting to to an actual to an actual consciousness or or or an emotion that isn't programmed.

01:54:17
In exactly the human brain. The first thing I learned in in psychology was that human brain is most complex thing we know about in the universe and it's just since magical to me and that's why I'm here. It's just I'm just trying I'm really trying to figure it out, so please.

01:54:40
So I think before we can get to the point where we can say we've built an artificial. Sentient emotional machine. We have to sort of define what what you know conscious emotion is in intermittent mechanical terms and and you know, I get I guess I guess what I heard from Max was that, you know, the the his framework work was that was that I mean well, I mean, so I mean, I what I wanted to do was sort of like take that question to Acer and and and his I guess he ate some started to talk about feel it feelings how you know, the macro the sort of closed macro.

01:55:24
Causality of high level activity might result in feelings at some point and then I was sort of like where the the conversation ended but I wondered does you have a? Framework for emotion and and how emotion might be caused and and at the sort of the neural correlates of what that could be.

01:55:44
And is that go ahead. That's a good question. We haven't had. A hypothesis reach to emotion but what I can say is emotion to some extent is a very low dimensional space, right? You have just as if just few types of emotion and it's intensity and so it's it's actually a very low temperature met dimensional space so what we can say is no matter what kind of physiological change in your body and no matter what kind of high dimensional the physiological state you have a, Eventually our conscious content only contends the very very low dimensional emotion emotional information.

01:56:31
So I think maybe at this point we cannot have very concrete mathematical explanation for emotion experience but I think it's a promising theory that we can in the future we can describe it is some kind of post-graining and from the information only close process of in the brand and that content emotional load dimensional information.

01:56:55
But that's that's my hope. I'm curious to ask whether it really, I can be said to be the case with such confidence as that emotions have such load bench net dementialities. Sure, it is the case that we have a few words that describe them maybe we have English language.

01:57:14
Let's say 50 to 100 words, but we would know the major categories right and the major categories ineffective neuroscience. They are limited categories, but if you think about for instance, I'll just suggest the example of a poem and basically the screen cation of words. To derive a different character of emotion.

01:57:38
It's not as though there are basically a series of buckets and a line of poetry will get you into one of these coarse grain buckets of emotions. It seems that even though we cannot describe them, we do not have all the words to just to describe all of the colors, right?

01:57:57
You might say the same thing that welders, you know, there's just like 12 basic colors and then there's variations from those. But yeah, our propensity to name things and to say it's a bluish green and not be able. To coarse grain our description doesn't mean the phenomenon is not coarse-grained.

01:58:13
And so I would yeah, I'm interested as to how certain we can really be of such course grading in emotions. Sorry that means just fun. I think like my my description is a little bit wrong. It is low dimensional is low lower than the neuron physiological space, but it is still high I snuck.

01:58:38
Sorry. But let's just imagine like the we have like the a billion. But we have a baby and of neurons and also 86 billion. Yeah Eddie and okay, 86 86 ABC. And then also each neuron can have like a 10 20 sorry like 10,000 of synapse to other neurons, so an even everyone we can see is a parameter, right?

01:59:08
So is the dimensionality is super super high but compared to our emotional state. Of course, it's rich, but relatively is still pretty much low but that's that's the, Relative concept Yeah I agree with with Dexter that this idea that like ???? have low dimensionality is like I think that emotion our emotional what we call emotions are just as have just as much richness and complexity as other types of thoughts because in fact you can think about emotions as types of thoughts.

01:59:39

02:00:30
Does take something away in most cases when you think about like when you're when someone's really in love with a person or an idea there's certain resources that are turned on and there's certain resources that seem to be shut down right like they're they're normal kind of fault finding machinery and they're they're internal critics where they're not really seeing the flaws in this idea that they're live with or like I said with anger it's like certain things are turned on like swiftness to action and some some kind of hostility and empathy is maybe turned off and like in depression when someone stood.

02:01:05
It's not just some color like they're gray it's like they have thought processes about like about you know frustration about the the meaningless of their goals that that that that their goals don't get them yeah. I think this is few that low dimensional is somehow an insult to emotions.

02:01:21
I think low dimensional is just a information theoretic concept about the number of independent degrees of freedom and representing something so if you if you take the you know, that the average person knows 20,000 or more words each one of those words is sort of an independent degree of freedom in the type of representation space as possible.

02:01:40
If we you know if we try to you know name as many emotions as we could and even sort of combine some words to get different emotions it might be hard to come up with more than a hundred, you know, maybe we could come up with five hundred but a lot of those are going to be complex, you know structures that combine ideas and but there's also it was sort of analyst measuring earlier there's this view of constructed emotions there's a wikipedia page on it that's it's a pretty compelling page by I'm not familiar with the theorist but it's sort of says that you might have some you know, certain kind of core sensations that can happen things you feel in your body.

02:02:15
Or things sort of associated with certain automatic dynamic processes like anger and fear and happiness and joy and pleasure and maybe some things like that but then you have a very large repertoire of socially constructed emotions 

Right? It's like that's the one real quick yeah that's gonna point out that yellow it has an extremely important evolutionary it's not the goodness social construct, but of course it has an implication environment as well, yeah, there will be house. I think what Paul was saying was there's two different sort of uses of this concept of 'emotion', for example and one is more connected with this kind of private qualia thing that we have in our minds versus how she used in real life a lot of.

02:03:47
The time that isn't really necessarily connected to a certain sensations yeah if I can now add something to this I'd like to speak to Max's earlier claim that yeah emotions are thoughts. I think I'd like to kind of offer a little bit more to that conception because I mean effective neuroscience there's this there's this view that certain emotions.

02:04:15
I are not just you know, the the isolated, you know, neural firing and, And like some of these more abstract representations, you know with semantic terms but but rather certain emotions cannot be dissociated from certain visceral sensations that are coupled with the emotion that are quite different than you know, something you're more neutral such as like abstract semantic thought for example something like (name some EMOTION) might have can common tent visceral phenomena such as increased heart rate or increased.

02:04:57
Garbage skin response perspiration, you know greeting of the teeth increased body temperature so so these visceral phenomena are kind of like part and parcel with the emotion with the feeling and in many cases if somebody has damage to a particular brain circuit where these visceral phenomena don't manifest them typically the the emotion isn't detected and.

02:05:29

02:06:04
A feeling that it is kind of like embodied within the visceral phenomenon that comes with the emotion and there are many emotions that have this schematic visceral basis that can't be properly dissociated from the experience of the emotion, but at the same time there may be some more higher level emotions that might have a foundation of asymmetic process with you know, some nested layers of cognitive processes, like second order processing like guilt and stuff like that, but, Is important to highlight that when it comes to emotions they I think just lumping them in with with thoughts kind of lacks the like the proper nuance that's needed to tease apart these terms saying the third that they're simple thoughts it's like when I say, you know, like you can think of anger as an abbreviation for a diverse collection of mental states some of which may dispose us to interpret innocent gestures as a threat and so that's not as simple thought at all it involves like perceptual biases and and things like, That and so yeah, I I don't think that what you said is is inconsistent with the fundamental idea in any significant way.

02:07:22
I think it's additive to it right so the embodied notion of emotions is important to add to the picture and that's also worth noting that that is a bidirectional relationship but you can explain an emotion by stimulating the physiology of in a particular way, so it's right if we just if we keep thinking of emotions as being something completely different from thoughts that happens outside her.

02:07:49
Head then we're never good at making any progress but I feel like the framework. I'm presenting gives us a lot of attraction for for like to think about these things it's just amazing. I wanted to point to when it's a good moment. I wanted to kind of put forward an idea that might relate to some things that Acer was saying earlier but it's a little bit of a digression from a motion all the way we can always come back to motion, are you there sir?

02:08:13
Yeah yeah okay cool yeah so so on this related this topic and it also might come back to emotion because it's all about kind of high level constructs, you know, really to this idea of consciousness or let's say cognition and consciousness both being kind of higher order processing types of processing happening in the brain that might be sort of layered abstractions on top of low-level neural activity one, you know, one sort of interesting analogy to consider the brain.

02:08:44
I think is two things one is what happens in civilization and how kind of, Economies work but human beings and another is what's happening on Clubhouse so I just want to kind of flip these analogies and see where this goes so the first is if you look at civilization.

02:08:58
I you know, work labor is organized according to you know, the ninety-day cycle, you know people we have to work day that as sort of spontaneity happened during the daylight and people go home to sleep at night and it's the movement of the sun around the planet that is created at synchronization, but that synchronization allows society to function so that everyone is you know, doing working at the same time which allows work to be more efficient and everyone's sleeping at the same time.

02:09:22
And then if you look at know the day a week you know these seven day work weeks of are these seven day weeks of emerged you know kind of spontaneously in different cultures somehow the whole world is standardized on the seven day week and with you know, five work days and two days off that's another type of synchronization where businesses have all synchronized so that during certain time windows they're all doing the same type activity enduring a different time window, they're doing other stuff and that's the way of making the product the dynamic processing of the economy more efficient and then even in the case of market days, you know, and in a lot of countries will be marketing.

02:09:57
Days. Sunday or Tuesday or whatever and different day and different cities And it's the same day when all the buyers and sellers go converge to the same place in the same time in order to engage in a certain type of exchange So the analogy is that's a lot of what is happening with neural synchrony in the brain that different brain areas need to communicate each other and synchronize the communication so that the communication will arrive at the right place to the right time from different places so the right types of transforms and processing can happen.

02:10:22
So I wanted to kind of throw that out there and the idea of these rhythms might not be any different than let's say the beta rhythms that you see in the frontal cortex or the alpha rhythms in the sort of. Revision area or the debate of rhythms are 18 to 24 Hertz in the offer of them are 10 to 14 hertz the you've also got the data rhythms and the input campus and and there's evidence for kind of basic processing but in these rhythms.

02:10:46
These rhythms might be essentially periodic synchronization of neural activity in order to create these sort of layers of abstraction on top of it. And then the last idea wanted to throw out related to this is what's happening on Clubhouse, you could argue that clubhouse is creating a social conscious space all the people who are on clubhouse right now are being synchronized.

02:11:07
By the mechanics of the clubhouse system you know different rooms with different topics of showing up and people go and get aggregate in those same rooms and those happening at a time in place so that people who share this interest are all converging at a time and a channel an online channel so that they can exchange ideas because you need everyone there are simultaneously in order for the idea exchange to work.

02:11:27
So there's all these ways in which the activity of elements are being synchronized and coordinated and orchestrated in order to make the exchange of information efficient and allow higher level of his abstract into emerge. So something similar could be happening in the rain to create the layers of abstraction.

02:11:42
That are like conscious cognitive processing and contrast processing Hey Paula trying to build throughput to build upon that I was even thinking yeah that's a very interesting notion this idea almost like there's these notable points of consciousness and this room right now and they're all sharing information with each other and I'm wondering if there might be something similar with that with the brain or just the human body or whatever where there's different nodal points of consciousness.

02:12:11
So, for example with the split brain experiments, I'm thinking there's a possibility that like look. There could be at least two nodes with both.

02:12:25
Linguistic abstractions whereas the other one thinks in these kind of nonverbal ways and there's also even like with lucid dreaming when you become lucid within the dream the dorsal lateral prefrontal cortex comes on and then yourself aware. Oh, I died during my psychedelic trip. But then this this and this happened.

02:12:55
Well, if you died how did this this happen? It could be that one. In the consciousness of the brain or one conscious note goes out and they share information with each other and because the information is shared there is a feeling of oh I did this when actually they the use of the word I in this case can refer to different nodes within one being so that's another thing that I've been thinking about a lot recently yeah talk about the minimum level of computing quite a bit but we don't talk about the minimum level of consciousness quite as much and I think to max and the Marvin Minsky.

02:13:35
Model of agency it's very interesting to think about what the the minimum sort of agency level of consciousness is and how that differs how that differs between animals and us and what those side of brain experiments but I'd also like to add and a little bit to pause point on what clubhouse is doing to us we talk about consciousness in a static way quite often as consciousness now in 2021, whereas consciousness is is evolved as much as we understand and over a very long time frame and you could almost reframe.

02:14:10
This room as neuroscience and AI are path towards solving computing because effectively it's a race it's it's what we create versus what evolution has created and I it's it's strange to me that we always talk about consciousness as human consciousness in the 21st century and perhaps we need to look at a different model paths in the same way we break down great computing down to minimum components which we think of consciousness in the same way yeah.

02:14:39
I wanted to come back to something with some said before that point gets lost and I was also curious to hear from Acer so you. But just quickly responded with some you mentioned split brain patients or I think you sort of made a reference to that and also I was actually sorry I was forced to say who did that, oh sorry apologies, so yeah, I think there's you know to say with the analogy of civilization is just kind of a useful intuition pump it's a split brain is a little bit so you could say the consciousness and take a country like I don't know take the United States, for example, oh because the United States think about this or that but in the American people think about this or that well, there's no simple answer but there's a lot that's being talked about.

02:15:20
Instead of you know, the conversations in the air.

02:15:29
He fell out of solutions just so you know, okay yes so you can say that all these different conversations are happening, whether it's people living around or underneath reported or collectively part of the conscious content of America, and then you can imagine the city Internet was split down. This.

02:16:04
Whoever said divided by the Eastern West and somehow every website is based on the east coast and everything we were saying on the east coast does it the people in the west coast just can't access that content it's like it's all the east coast content is all deleted from their internet searches and which shows up on Fox News and everything else and same for the people on the East Coast you still have what America is talking about and and everyone on the west coast they're on the west side of the country would feel like we see it in the news we know what everyone's saying all the time and people are the East Coast would be saying the same thing that they know what America is talking about and it's pretty clear with some news.

02:16:39
Each side would be seeing different news and different conversations those conversations would start to diverge from each other and it would sort of lose their synchronization with each other but they still be conscious they just be kind of a divided consciousness. I'll sort of working and sort of splitting off so I wanted to make that analogy and then I also wanted to make analogy to ego solution staying with the same metaphor.

02:17:01
You could say that the ego of the United States is like the US government you know what the US government has to say are the official statements of the United States to the outside world that receive from poor leaders and report on the news is the official view of the United States, even though people in the United States some might agree some might disagree just like some of the neurons might be aligned with whatever the official conscious content is and some might not and then if you imagine, you know, the US becomes a pale nations, they the US government collapses, there's no other home that no one answers the phone in Congress it all goes silent and becomes like the country of Somalia whether actually is no government.

02:17:36
Then that's sort of like the state of ego dissolution there's still consciousness there's still stuff going on people are still talking about things but there's no singular voice that's being convergent is the official voice and it's just a cacophony of a bunch of different voices so that might be sort of an analogy for ego dissolution.

02:17:54
Yeah I'd like to just come off for something. I think there might be a little bit of confusion of the phenomenology of ego dissolution. I've heard on several comparisons of it to death. I don't necessarily think that the literature and the subjective experiences of predominantly like in the experience and I would like people do call it ego death, you know, they call it eagle, you know, it's not like that but why have butter or something like that and not saying that so I was gonna say yeah, I will mention.

02:18:29
So that there are there are two ways to kind of like parse this um, one way is people um can have these experiences spontaneously without the influence of any drugs or substances, there's actually a psychometric course cosmic consciousness is sort of a well-known thing, yeah and minute and says, Yeah exactly stand there there is a psychometric psychological mystery called ego weakness and certain people with certain neurodivergent dispositions such as schizophrenia tend to have high levels of ego weakness, so you know, this this does seem to be a thing on kind of like on a graded spectrum where some people just have an intrinsically, you know, more fungible like ego module the other hand there are drug-induced ego solution experiences.

02:19:24
Of the prototypical kind of with LSD psilocybin and DMT however, I will add that when it comes to this quote-unquote death experience not not just ego to solution but like at that experience there's a particular psychedelic in which most of these subjective reports tend to describe something that can be kind of like interpreted as a candidate that would be five m e o d m t which is the phenomenon of the snow and desert tote and it has a very different phenomenon phenomenology than the reported.

02:19:59
Ego dissolution experiences of the other classical psychedelics like LSD psilocybin and DMT so I think you know, even even in the space of psychedelic induced ego solution experiences there's kind of this level of nuance that you know can be had in these conversations but I don't think that in the classical psychedelics like LSD still saving MDMT that most of the the subjective experiences would equate the experience to death but rather a more appropriate and explanation would be that the ego.

02:20:34
To the solution is kind of this dissolution of the experience of having a self-contained in this body that's separate from the environment actually that was the point I was making distribution of self I needed right before you get too far away. I didn't want to get the face or had any comments on the general idea of kind of coordinated synchronized activity, you know, creating abstractions that general framework thought about that too after.

02:21:05
He talks it you got me thinking, okay. Somebody had a comment before a circus respond to something Ramsay said for a minute or unless he's ahead well yeah that's gonna take a little you know structure part before we go there yeah yeah. I wasn't trying to jump in front of you so I just I do want to comment on the on the analogy you're bringing up it's really interesting okay.

02:21:35
I will try to answer cold and wisdom's questions simultaneously the same time with our simple hypothesis, so I think you're two questions. One the first one is related to the scale problem of consciousness so we can so the first one is okay, let's say we have a lot of weight, oh also can say infinite way to do close branding or to do abstractions about your physiological states, it's definitely a true so so the first problem is okay, what kind of corpse granny or abstraction can really lead to our consciousness so this is the first one is we always we can relate it to the scale problem of consciousness and the second one is okay, if you have two kind of two consciousness.

02:22:20
In your system and so that they interact with each other so where is the boundary of consciousness so through people the boundary problem of consciousness so I always we want to deal with those problems with very simple simple way just do by information theory we can simply say okay, we asked the conscious and then financial have those microscopic information okay, so I have so my conscious process definitely is information.

02:22:55
Those Michael's one.

02:23:19
Way of abstraction can lead to conscious process so so so that's the first one and the second one is okay, okay so if you have some like us conscious entity and then maybe the interact which artificial so which means you have information of from A to B and then we can also use the same principle we can say okay, can we have some kind of information only closed the boundary the system then that we can define the boundary so in our theory the hypothesis is very simple, so first hypothesis.

02:23:54
Is okay, we cannot feel the microscopic activity so the first half of this is our conscious process there must be information curls to the microscopic the processes and the second hypothesis is okay, so even we are information only close to microscopy process, but of course the old URL interaction between you and the environment are under microscopy level so the microscope level is only kind of virtual interaction right so if you are informationally close to the microscopic.

02:24:29
Processes, how can you still interact with still have the rich visual representation about your environment so the second hypothesis is those information which means it still can model the external environment and also a predict have success of prediction about the interaction about you and the environment and this is the key point to answer the first question so so if you we add this criteria or this constraint to to the to our physical.

02:25:04
Post-grading then we can we can now not every course branding can lead consciousness conscious process only those process can form in nontrivial information only close to process can have consciousness and there is a very important implication from our theory and also very different from other theories and based on this this simple hypothesis, we actually allow a multi-consciousness or with an essays nested consciousness a, Lot we love nesting consciousness exists, so so for example, we can have like a individual level consciousness here, but if we have a social interaction that also forms some kind of information close a process and it still can be conscious and so the point is why we cannot have the conscious content or we can we cannot be aware of those macro or micro consciousness because we are informational closed so the information closure is very a strong idea that because our own.

02:26:15
Is already informational because so even there exists some other conscious processes like a macro process or even microprocess, but because we are called so we cannot feel it. So this is the implication from our single hypothesis and and this is also very different from other theory of consciousness like integra information theory they try to exclude the possibilities there are multiple possibility of nested consciousness.

02:26:44
So, this is one thing. So, Say that okay. Close. I still wish I still have some interaction with other processes then the you need to enlarge your boundary in our old mathematically you not you need to draw a larger boundary and then until you find the information only close the process that can can can wrap up the the whole process and then that we can define the boundary of consciousness by this weight.

02:27:17
So so for our stereo, there's no no problem to about like a two consciousness hours something like that. So we can have because we have A rigorous mathematical description about information. So we can actually define the boundary or we can find one to say detective boundary of consciousness. So that's well what we want to do in our series, yeah.

02:27:42
I'm Michael I just want to introduce myself to everybody. I understand what you're saying. I thought sure similar view it's like a close loop. So I always look at it like electrons. So we'll just continue to pass. One of my theories is that. If you look at it how gonna put this I get a little the way I think is a little different but if you look at human beings as Adams and consciousness like kind of like orbital shells.

02:28:15
It has each each part of continents has its own unique energy level the physical mind access to balance shale controlling the chemical and conductor properties of an atom and electronic strange. So that would explain motion and things like that because these electrons want to pass an exchange and continue to create and put.

02:28:37
Things out but we look at thought that's something separate. I always tell people if you look at our existence as one mind then you start to find the dandrides to connect everything and you understand if as above so below and you can kind of see us moving like atoms like if you look at yourself like an atom and your emotions as these electrons and these things that can pass from one thing to another going from a higher potential to a lower if it's an emotional effect then you can start to begin to you know, like kind of conceptual.

02:29:12
Ize something different than we we usually do and my name is Michael and I'm done. Is there you know when one thing that I think is a potential challenge with the the claim that you can't detect a single neuron is of course normally one neurons not going to make much difference it's wondering to see if 30 billion other neurons in the cortex, but if that one neuron, let's say despite there didn't spike spiking it just that right time happened to cause another neuron to spike the led to a cascade that caused a decision to just tip, you know is right on the edge I could have gone wondering another and to sort of went one way instead of the other that one neuron could be the you know, the straw that broke the camel's back to use that analogy, so it could have a detectable effect even though the neuron.

02:29:53
By itself didn't as an individual neuron. I think pulled that false prey to your point. I think you're very insightful point about photons right is that it can potentially be a regulated and it only warrants the coarse grain attention once it's reached as sufficient number is that right Asa.

02:30:11
Maybe I can simply answer a post question so it is possible like well but our theory doesn't only include respect spatial post-graining but also temporal so for example like one neuron it may spike but usually we don't think the one spike can change a lot but if you have like of a high intense a high intensity spiked like higher five high firing rates, then it's a the information from this neuron is more robust, it's so in this such ways the temporal post branding can lead to.

02:30:46
More chance to lead to a conscious experience in this case and so it's a simple okay so I think one one one one one thing I want to say is the there is no cos grinning it's really implemented in the brand it's more it is a virtual a virtual information channel that you can you can you can imagine there's a virtual information channel that calls grand.

02:31:21
Of the micro process to the Metro but the information channel itself is not real so it's just the some kind of feature extraction to establish a coach of information only closed the process at the microscopy level and of course then oh if this is not real then how can we find it so this is what we're working on so we are working on like information auto next week to to do this kind of course branding but we are still working on it, so we are not not sure what happened next year well.

02:31:56
If you had recursion if it's like a single neuron was involved in in kind of a recursive where it's retriggering a pattern that retriggers itself then that can cascade into a macro level effect right exactly actually less that's true so which we actually can find a lot of information on closed process of let's say you just put a lot of neuron and then and use a recurrence brute and then it just repeat the pattern itself but in our series.

02:32:31
We. We try to say this is usually not a case. So usually we can represent the environment information a very rich full environment information. So this is kind of a little bit paradox. So if we list this information only close let's say it's isolated and how can you still represent the environmental information?

02:32:51
So to solve this product so that the concept of non-trivial information closure is the key of our theory. So so nontrivial information closure is even you are information only closed process even you are even you. Guys isolated even but if you still can mimic the environment change which some kind of some kind of modeling the environment transition and even your interaction between you and environment then you still can reach informationally closed process, but still have nontrivial information about our environment.

02:33:30
So the 3 points here is okay, you can really put one single neuron and put the recurrent loop and make it information note close. That's true, but what we constantly is our consciousness is. Simple still have a risk for environment information. So the the camera with this inner trivial information culture is our key key hypothesis about conscious process.

02:33:53
Yeah, yeah. I think that um, Yeah I mean I think what you just said Acer is actually the the basis right now neuroscience at this point is to be able to take the system in isolation and recapitulate using your proposed hypothesis the behavioral observations and then where you know, we infer the internal state of the animal but my question to you is your theory sounds great, but what is the role of empiricism, you know, and what you're describing and what comes the mind a lot of what you're saying has been done already experimentally and I'm thinking of a paper that was published in 2018.

02:34:32
This is by you should probably look up Kate Thai she's a prominent neuroscientist. There's a paper entitled dopamine enhance a signal of noise ratio and cortical brain stem encoding of a verse of stimuli and essentially this experiment is a your theory down and so the identified a node in this case this was a prefrontal cortical to periodic reductal gray circuit and using precise electrochemistry, they actually identified the concentration.

02:35:07
Of dopamine required to change the dynamics in that circuit and then obviously from a behavioral neuroscience context to explore the animals' relationship to a stimulus that was previously previously neutral and so they enhance just by perturbing the concentration so here we are using your language something that would be microscopic and then they're observing something that you know would be more or less macroscopic or at least.

02:35:42
Higher degree of dimensionality to use the language that you are using previously and so they so I guess free for my question to you would be with your model would you be able to predict what precise concentration of dopamine without obviously looking at the at the experiment to get the the value that that was happened to be what caused that trigger that switch but would you be able to predict that and with that?

02:36:13
I think that would be very powerful to give Credence to what you're saying. To us tonight actually yeah, this is a very good question I can say that for now there there are a lot of consciousness theory of consciousness but not so many theory are mathematically formulated so for example a global workspace theory is a populace theory but we don't really know what global workspace is so there's no mathematical description so it's hard to tell on other there, there are there is the global neuronal workspace which yes that's more specific theory, yeah.

02:36:52
I, Agree. I agree. I mean when people talk about global workspace then they unless less usually less to to use some mismantle formulation of global world space, but in other countries like for example, like IIT in a needle grade information theory is a mathematical way of formulated so what I want to say here is our theory is also mathematical formulated so to test it over to a mac prediction is much much easier than other theory of consciousness, so.

02:37:27
And and how to empirical tests it's so we of course we now we don't have like we don't have any measurement we can have a all internal brand state of our hand, but even that we can still compute so from based on our theory we can we can still compete but the nontrivial information closure it's an it's it's just information our theory radical measurement so we can really compute it with the major the brand and any any of brand data from any.

02:38:02
Many any brand major and then we can compute the non-trivial information closure so that and then if we can from this we can make prediction right and if that match the phenomenology, then we can test our theory very rigorously so what I want to say here is we haven't done any experiment and also in the previous literature there's no one look at the trivial information closure no one because this is quite this is a new concept in information theory in the is proposed by a veterinary in.

02:38:37
2006 so from here from from that paper, there's no application for this kind of information measurement to neuroscience, so I want to say that is a. Our theories is mathematical a formulated so we can test it very well but from now and before now we don't have much data to support our theory that's true yeah yeah is there it seems like an interesting direction is that you mentioned there's a mathematical model is there anything I can is there paper on it or anything I can search for a view to find out more about it, yes.

02:39:15
I think if you can just Google my name then you can find our paper in the publish list here in front here comes oh great yeah look for it, yeah, so if I didn't ask the question, To Paul's point about synchrony and the precision of message passing so that does seem to be something which is a play in neuronal ensembles and the yeah paired filing in the brain and also seems to be evidenced across cultural synchrony and just had systems even at the level of biophysiology and humans seem to do this particularly well and it seems also to fall out naturally actually out of any two systems.

02:40:03
Attempting to predict each other so in so much as message passing becomes efficient because you have two predictors that are trying to predict the arrival and the the appropriate sending of messages a synchrony naturally emerges from two Bayesian engines attempting to pass messages right and so this kind of synchrony humans with our particularly explicit predictive brains do extraordinary well, not only at the level of culture, but most evidently at the level.

02:40:37
Outside the brain of language so we have an extraordinary attunement to isocrine in tone and in language so we break a speech up into specific past. I sophomores units, even though speech itself is not esophagus and there's been sort of there's a paper called the paradox that I softened it you might be interested in it and the paradox is that the speech itself is not isopronous so we don't speak in beats like we do in.

02:41:13
Music we're one of the few creatures that can train to a nice softness beat but we don't actually use it when we form words but it's been theorized and this paper suggests and models the way in which I softened is actually used to time the appropriate pauses between speakers and between words to allow efficient communication that you know, the beats after which it's appropriate to begin speaking and we do this with extraordinary accuracy and so given this like trans scalar precision that's evident.

02:41:48
Actually across all living systems but particularly humans do this at the level of neurology we run along ensembles and communication between other minds does your theory in line with shared questions does this precision of synchronous message passing fallout for a better word from your theory? I think unfortunately because our theory is only tried to try to identify cultures process so but I think this what you say is very important in terms of information theory of in the neuroscience and I there I think there are there is a lot of this kind of study but our theory is a thousand directly tried to explain this information communication in the behavior level, so yeah, so we're conversionally we cannot.

02:42:45
I cannot answer this question directly yeah but well if it would explain that the level of neurons right as in document neurons basically up regulating or rather the cortical gain of a signal surely it surely it does if it does it the level of neurons yeah it would surely rise to at the level of communication.

02:43:08
I think one interesting thing is in the thinking our communication or you can say when we use our language we actually only have intention and those are those words those sentence are actually composed unconsciously and we say it and we even don't we don't have the conscious assets about those that grammatical processing and also those synthetic processing we only have some intention then we can say some sentence so.

02:43:43
This is important in our also in our theory so this unconscious processing seems not able to form information close information in the conscious level so but so what if not only thing I can say is for communication with things have a some kind of abstraction interface we can just put the intention and then that generate those communication and but what so so the only thing I can say is okay, maybe in the future we can focus on.

02:44:18
What kind of the more semantic level to find a conscious yeah so frequency yeah, thank you that is yeah, very intriguing.

02:44:33
Hey, so I have a question what would you say the way you were talking about the channels would it relate to like current flow? The channel means any information processing so for example current flow is one way to convert convey information right even but thinks the chemical channel is is also one way to count convey information so the point is what kind of information from in the brand communicate with other than can be concious content is is the our research goal yeah so any so all you can say we don't know what kind of physics physical subtract.

02:45:17
Is. Related to consciousness equipped in Europe. It could be air component. It could be anything. But one thing is unchanged is no matter what kind of physical subtract you have information is there. So information can be detached from the physical subtract, right? So this is the very foundation of our approach because I don't know anything about physical subtract and consciousness, but what we know is we have conscious content.

02:45:46
It's information. And we have physiological change and it's also information. So we want to link, In these two together. So that's our very fun fundamental idea of this whole theory kind of looking right? Oh yeah, maybe Frank should and then Ramsey had brought up but you go to solutions we could always go back to that.

02:46:08
But yeah, maybe you should go Frank. Oh, hey sir very interesting paper that I just brought the the abstract of the few paper. So in there you mentioned a keywords of non-trivial nontrivial or information closure and that the pattern versus the environment. We know that in general this visa that the brain I mean, we lose consciousness though, the brain is firing right in some level has some level.

02:46:36
So what may I mean just save time? What is your experimental suggestions? What what what would you refer to? The threshold threshold. You says there's a certain course grain but there seems to be a specific level, right? If there's a such a level what what kind of a scientist what what what's your theory, you know, what was your explanation of these this but you never know?

02:47:04
Yes, that's good questions. So in our favorite way actually have a chapter about unconscious process. So you can say so even we have some weird sleeping or we have deep sleep, no dreams sleeping and we we are maybe in a deep. Coma but with our brains deals have some kind of activity, right?

02:47:24
And of course, then we can do some close grinding due to some abstraction. Of course but the point is whether those activity can be can be called grand into a nontrivial information or close process. That's our the core hypothesis. So in this chapter about unconscious processing we list several unconscious processing like blindside like a procedure memory and those process.

02:47:55
Are usually unconscious and we explain why they are unconscious because they are not information on clothes. So even like a patient that in coma, they're called for example, they're outed auditory cortex still can respond to like external sound but this is totally informationally not calls because it's directly influenced by the external information.

02:48:19
So this kind of process then we can simply become simply explained by our theory because it's not information like close. So, it's not conscious. So the criterion is, You from a close grinding to form close grinding and then the first grant process is information on course, then that's the key.

02:48:41
Hey if I want to ask you so I skimmed your paper and I I was looking for what you reference earlier that you're trying to understand something that's not not real in the brain some sort of I was wondering um what so if you're trying to like can you elaborate on that point basically what are you talking about the macro process of that leads to macroprocesses that are not really you're trying to detect by detecting the changes in the in the in the environment of the brain and and yeah and maybe to say more.

02:49:16
About what is the mathematical underpinning of detecting something that's not real what do you mean by that? This is some kind of magical mathematical troops so with so first simply we can quantify information flow by transport entropy that's the first step so if we take transfer entropy as a way to to describe information flow then we can next define what's information closure so if you imagine closure becomes like there's no information transfer between a system beauty system a then system is.

02:49:57
Information not only close to system b so by this transform information and we can quantify information closure is the transfer entropy becomes zero so then we can use this information closure to quantify how much information can assist the microscopic system and can transfer to the macroscopic system of the system, so here the importance thing is to connect to consciousness is so we we have a lot of physiological change physiological information very.

02:50:33
High dimensional but in conscious content, we only have a little bit about it, so there must be some information lost in from the micro to macro and we can use information closure to describe this so so the whole story is based on this this mathematical foundation and also forming phenomenology our countries experience and then we can formulate the following of theory yeah, that's the whole thing yeah yeah reasonably tough question hey so but but I'd be interested just.

02:51:08
Yeah, if you could have to go do you have a theory of why it is that evolution would have preceded along these lines and also how the integrity of the closed informational system would have survived variant mutations which would have altered the actual physical structure of neurons and their firing rates, so how is this maintained as the brain involves over time and what is the adaptive value do you?

02:51:38
I know those are unfairly tough questions, but I'm just curious as to whether, They are affected into your odds, okay? I can answer this question but maybe the answer will be very different from one other people say so the first thing is is about functionalism so some people some conscious theory of consciousness or some idea of consciousness, they think consciousness has some function not support the patient in the evolution, so but our theories very different our theory is just from very simple informational hypothesis about.

02:52:18
This process but the point is the the implication of our non-functional are hypothesis can lead to a strong functional as aspect so the functional aspect is to form the non-trivial information culture you need to model the environment and also model your interaction with environment so the functional implication from our series, okay the if you can well model the environment and your interaction with of course you have.

02:52:53
A very good way to adapt to the current environment so in our theory consciousness is is some kind of eye product of a modeling process so in this by this way we can to me it's time we're separate why what's the informational aspect of consciousness and why it can be consciousness and also why what is the functional implication of this information or process and in?

02:53:28
The and also how it works in the evolution so I think our theory can of very very well integrate this two point of view but but like the for some functionalism if they believe the consciousness is some kind of evolution some tools evolved in the evolution of process evolutionary evolutionary process, then yeah, it may it's hard to explain why consciousness can produce or exist at beginning but.

02:54:03
Our series more from more functional point of view and then put the implication about functional aspects yeah that's just that's very very elegant because you never encounter the variance in the substrate it's really the it's in virtue of modelling at a particular course grain that the phenomena emerge emerges right so it survives the change evolution change to the neural substrate if that's right, which is exactly yeah, well great.

02:54:38
Is there yeah yeah, yes thanks for you know sharing that your recent research so I'm very interested so the can I make, you know exam I mean, bring the example the dream would you say the say I we often remember what we dream last night right so is the dream state that I'm literally I had I've taken, you know information theory of courses so understand that you're you're you're so far is more a can I say is more.

02:55:13
Of the radical like the work so if that's to be what would be a few good examples that are the the brain states are that has this closure information closure states that would dream be one or say earlier we mentioned that you said coma but it is a coma like only I don't think the brain fires only to be external stimuli right so it is fired unself no so I guess I'm you know, That those are will be you know, I just took a stream well what was your comment down the stream yeah, okay yeah, yeah.

02:55:53
I think there are two questions here, oh so first is about train so I think a good challenging good challenge to our series is okay during dreaming we don't really have like turn on inputs so so it's it's nothing for probably and people may say okay, it's not non-trivial information only closed so but what I want to emphasize here is not all our brand and, Brand processes are the part of the information closed process because we can easily see a lot of sensory or motor hortical area, they are quite passive right so if you input some information visual auditory and anything then it acts it activates, so there are quite passive and not information only close because it can respond to the external information there there's no culture so there must be some more core part about our brand is can be information on closed so.

02:56:56
About dreams this is the same thing so during dreaming we can see from like FMI we can see a lot of our primary sensory area and also motor area can be activated right so those are actually the environment of the information only closed process in the in our brand so but this is indeed this is currently more theoretical theoretical gas about how.

02:57:31
We can have conscious content in dreaming so that's the first question and second question is okay, yeah, of course there are a lot of like background noise or put more to academic words like a noise correlation in the brand so every neural of course fire a lot even you are not walking on some task, so but on the point is those the question is can we find a close grant of process that from the, Country viewing information only closed and then this is an imperial compression and we need to find a hot kind of post grinding or can say information channel can can phone it confirm this macroscopic information on culture process, so we are working on it yeah.

02:58:26
That's that's this this is a tough one yeah. Yeah, thank you very much. I hope you know in the future we'll yeah have a offline DMS yeah, thank you Acer I have a couple so yeah one was the idea of the acres idea of a virtual consciousness or virtual brain activity that's not that some I guess it goes back to to realize so I also searched your research paper for a mention of virtual and that's not mentioned in the paper either do you have it so what would would virtual brain activity have neural correlates and that sort of.

02:59:05
Sort of my question but then I let me let me pause there and give you a chance and then I'll have to follow up. So yeah that's the very good question so very deeper from some previous series so some furious theory also suggests okay our brand of course from a primary video or sensory cortex to a high-level cortex, we have some of the whole pipeline information pipeline are actually doing some kind of abstraction so but they all have of course this along this pipeline they all have neural or physiological.

02:59:46
Substract behind or under it but our series different we don't we want to say even those pipeline are doing some abstractions but the those are still neurons neural are noisy, so no matter what you need to build up some kind of abstraction is kind of virtual or close grant and but if the cost granting can be information on clothes that it can be very stable and also a good model about environment, so very different from previous theory we want to say those virtual.

03:00:21
Cos granny is there but it's not they don't really have physiological subtracts support it but this is not magical this is just a some way you can form is it's like using your computer right so in your monitor you you have some object in in your your desktop so but that's those objects are not real they are composed by like like pixels or more fundamentally composed by a like a memory.

03:00:56
Specimen something like something like that but you still can have object and abstract level right so this is listening so if we have an information or close process at microscope levels, they don't need to be a real thing in the physical world that's the plasticity so so one one point to that effect is and maybe to bring in shared a little bit but so, you know people want to find you know, I guess when people are new at a neuroscience they want to decode the brain and they want to say hey, there's there's there's a neural pattern and a week and identify it and one location and and, 
Then.

03:01:31
And then suddenly they're confronted with the reality that that you know what that you have groups of neurons that that might that might fire but not necessarily a single neuron firing in a single circuit it's like, you know, the the neuro correlates of you looking at a bottle could be one could be different neurons each time so it is sort of like it's sort of like evokes idea that you're representation is of some object could be virtual and that it's not a particular neuron.

03:02:04
I mean there then people say, oh, well, that's they're Jennifer Aniston. It's the country contravening example, right but but so so the the sort of to finish that idea it's it's um, it's like well, um. You know, so that that is a complete that is a complete idea but but the second idea was what how do you know what what because what I'm saying is like there's a whole bunch of like ideas coming out of in terms of how how neurons can receive information for in different in different ways, like I guess I guess there's there's there's papers that are saying that neurons can can detect maybe electromagnetic information, maybe a light may, you know different.

03:02:52
In a it's just like I'm not sure exactly what the consensus is here on what the if there is a consensus on on what the sort of closed you know, how neurons are actually closed off to each other. I don't know if this is more of like a question for for shared it can we really say that that and it's sort of connecting trying to connect neuroscience to to what ace are saying and maybe you can both answer that but but do we know for it is there a real consensus in science about what areas of the brain are really closed off from from other areas of the brain.

03:03:27
Is in terms of isn't that necessary for your for your paper that some. I might be able to before they replied just because that's why I raised my hand to to to your question my god so that for efficiency or.

03:03:50

Please go ahead.

03:03:57
I had heard something earlier. Ability is to answer these questions and it's exciting to listen to so to to parlay with what mica was stating and he mentioned that the very end but but for example if the eyes were closed but they were functioning that that photon could interact with the brain is one question of stimuli that may interact that that wasn't necessarily identified from.

03:04:34
From parts of the of the eye which as I understand is an extension of the brain. So so using that question one is with the the eyes as well as the spinal column conceptually being an extension of the brain has the stimuli to those elements being considered. As areas that may or may not have had.

03:05:06
Representation that you were talking about the second part of that is as I understand the XO and microbiome with only with me within the gut or intestines or the blood remain barrier has has an impact some might say that spicy food and backstreets just as an example. So those two other influences that aren't necessarily traditionally.

03:05:38
Added to the the typical sensory results.

03:05:46
Yeah, I mean I really enjoy and appreciate that question Mike because I think that was the motivation for my question that Acer previously I said, you know, the models are great but for the topic of this room at hand a path towards solving consciousness. I would actually also add to that to pose a question at Acer let's just constrain things very simply let's say a per individual sitting at a table and so on places an apple in front of them.

03:06:21
What are the measurable components that you would use in your model to be able to say with precision at which point that this apple come into that person's conscious awareness or was that person aware, you know of their conscious state and as part of that they saw the apple.

03:06:45

However, you you know, you want to word it and feel free to lean on me for the underlying mechanistic components the neurophysiology. Physiological components, but I'm just very curious about how does one take this model from a theoretical point of view to something that's actionable something for home the applications of which can be shared with humanity in a way that helps us better understand ourselves and I think that's where a lot of us perhaps join this room with that that deeper curiosity and so I'm just curious how you would go about approaching that Acer.

03:07:26
Yeah, this is a very good question and actually I'll I think it's not. So difficult to answer. So in the setting that's you say actually so we can use camera to record this Apple they may be we can tell the subject to rotate the Apple and then we can use camera to recover like what you see from your vision.

03:07:53
So you do have a external dynamic. Now, that's the environment, right? And then you can use some neural physiological major and then you can record the, Sound the neurotynamic and then simply you can use anyway to compute the information culture nontrivial information culture because it's a world mathematical formulated it's just need to have some approximation to compute X but in any way but you have this external dynamic you have also internal dynamic and you can easily compute it and then you can test whether this you can detect which kind of information in your brain major can.

03:08:39
Follow the information closure and then if it's related to your conscious experience, then we can we can prove or we can say we can evaluate the this model whether this model is really true or not so this is equal very empirically testable only one question is the major of our any major of the physical or like a macro major already called grant, for example like EG like FM by I or any any longer.

03:09:14
To do the brain major apples. I already call script so the only question here is we may be able to only find the small part of the whole process now the another another big of as I say our theory allowed the nested consciousness so the to find the biggest conscious consciousness in our brand probably is difficult to do that now but if but for more small small, Informational process then I think it's really not so difficult to test this theory for now yeah.

03:10:02
Very interesting as is it okay if I ask you a question yes, right? I just wanted to understand from a perspective of consciousness that you were elaborating or describing does it all relate to the brain and is consciousness a mental aspect only.

03:10:26

Um, I don't quite understand the question can you can use tennis refresh it so sorry, um. It seems like obviously consciousness is being approached from elements of the brain and neuroscience and your pathways and elements that are stimulated through senses, but as much as far as consciousness is concerned is it exclusively a brain element in neuro element or does it go beyond that okay that's good cushion so our theory us the same as other information our theory of consciousness is our thousand constraint is need to be biological.

03:11:09
Or. Wrong basis assistant, so because it's information informational theory, so. It can apply to other weird processes because any process it contends some kind of information so so our the the importance thing that in our series we have a mathematical formulation so and it's informational mathematical formulation so you can compute any system by this major and then you can.

03:11:47
We all base on our hypothesis, we can say it has how much consciousness and what kind of conscious content it may have so it doesn't restrict to biological or neuron based assistance so I think that's the that's important thing of our theory. I think that's a very important part.

03:12:07
I appreciate you for asking that question brother because I feel the same way you could once say that that the consciousness or ideas and thoughts are just frequency turned into. A geometry and then geometry being converted into mathematics. I mean numbers zeroes and ones because that's how we perceive information and our reality so my idea is when speaking back on the photons photons could be an exchange of information because they're just one degree to the next so if it all starts off vibrational or frequency if one want one wants to say the exchange continues just like every other thing in our universe our sales atoms everything continues.

03:12:57
To this potential rolling process, so I feel like that a lot of times it's it's so simple in my head like it's the same exact thing and we're complicating it with all of these like, you know understand this in this in like in the three dimensional way and I am founded it in science, but I can't find it inside.

03:13:19
I'm not you know, not at all do I have you guys potentials and I admire that I appreciate that and I'm glad you all are in the field and I appreciate being in this panel with you all but I, I put in the work the same exact way like my life should so I feel like what we need to do is connect the two we can't separate if you separate them then you won't understand so if things are waves and vibration and then that vibration exchanges into electricity then how hard is it to understand the frequency is changes into light and you know, like how hard or geometry then these information transforms into light and then I mean, it's just to me.

03:14:02
I have a hard time explaining it sometimes but, It's obvious like it's super obvious and we have to look behind a veil and we have to out if you look at the universe and I'll say it again, the cosmos has one brain then you can begin to understand things because you can see how everything is interconnected and then you can really understand the process by looking at the process of the cosmos like it's the same I'm not trying to be all metaphysical.

03:14:27
I'm just saying like even on a science basis it is really true like it's true like that. I don't see any separation and and it's not that hard to understand if we Eat if we stop making that divide like we're moving into a state of understanding where we should get past like okay, let's break this down into this three dimensional reality so we can understand it when we already know the other dimensions exist proven through physics like this.

03:14:56
I mean, I don't understand. Can yeah yeah Michael get in here and and and potentially support something, you know, you're going into here Michael because I think it's very easy for it to be seen as ignorance and a lot of people shy away from elaborating these points because in the academic fields they haven't had the pursuit of justification as it may deserve, so for example, there's an example of birds in Delaware that predict hurricanes and whether, Patents better than matureologists and AI has been able to because they actually tuned in to different ways and vibrations and by the way, if you don't know this please google it it's it's it's been studied under the study and it was shown that that these birds with a lot less you may think cognitive ability than us humans given that they don't have cars, you know, although they've evolved to a wing, but they they can predict the weather better than we can as humans and they're not doing any maths then.

03:16:08
They're doing any graphs, they're not doing any of that stuff they literally tuned in to very specific information that is available in this universe maybe at a metaphysical level, you know, big mike that you you going on about and and and I truly respect that perspective because Nikola Tesla did say that us humans will advance in ten years more than we've ever advanced in several thousand of thousand years when we start to when science focuses on metaphysics and understanding, What is actually happening at a higher level than the physical environment and just biology because we still haven't been able to truly transfer electricity the way Nicola Tesla was thinking of doing it in a wireless way we still doing it through cables because our you know, our science is still primitive to the metaphysical fashion of using different frequencies that are available out there now, what is what what?

03:17:14
What consciousness is necessary to tune into that and that's what I thought we would have probably been discussing and I'm sorry Mike had foundation shading away, you know, it just just hopping in here to to share a little bit of perspective but what to us humans need to do through AI in neuroscience to get closer to obviously one of the biggest forces in this universe which is sitting probably between us and the physical world being the frequencies that obviously there are animals.

03:17:49
Into that. So are we truly the most conscious beings in this planet or do we think we are we think we are and Mark I'm passing to you right after this. I apologize to Japanese fellows, but you just got me all like. Forget out like no I am very I feel a very strong connection with Nikola Tesla.

03:18:15
I actually have been working on what you were just talking about and I actually have understanding I believe I strongly believe how he plan to do it and the shredded sphere and I related to human beings. We're if you look at like quantum field theory, if you look at the fact that quantum filters 
based on particles random interaction is the same thing with human beings, so we randomly interact.

03:18:42

To carry on creation. You give an amazing so it's the same thing so you don't have to have a specific channel to run something straight through to specific point or rotate that energy if you have things interactive randomly, they can carry a charge and use these particles can pop out of nowhere to carry this charge.

03:19:02
So I'm still working on that but anyway definitely feel really coming from and I I know that that is the truth what he said and like I said, I mean that guy and I just feel a very very. Close connection with Nikola Tesla and I study and try to complete some his work.

03:19:22
I am a cultivator and I I am cultivation a cannabis. I use a lot of electromagnetic fields. I do a lot of weird stuff that other folks would do I talk about it often and runes a lot of tech companies email me try to talk to me. I knew it was super conductive point and a plant before they even started to talk about him batteries because I realized that I when I looked at the diagram for superconductivity and understanding.

03:19:52
It I understand how a plant process is nutrients and the whole process of photons and everything and and that's the thing what you said our other plants are more conscious than human beings. I mean, I'm just gonna tell you that they are well water has memory so yeah, they're just way more conscious than human beings.

03:20:15
I mean to not what has taken the human race now. Is a verbal communication. I'm just that's that's what has like decreased. I took us down like it bought us down because to convey an idea is something passed word because an actual not idea has intention your voice sound vibration can carry intention, but not to the to the understanding of what I'm talking about.

03:20:45
It cannot convey. It cannot convey attention in the way that I'm speaking of so. We reached a level like the ancients were where I believe and I could, you know later on expressing its theories anybody wanted to talk about them later on because I don't want to hug the floor it's a different it's different ways to transfer consciousness when you start to understand or transfer ideas across just the same way Tesla wanted to transfer wireless energy, but we have a reset point yet because we don't understand how we receive information and if we understand we receive information, then we can begin to give information and network.

03:21:27
I want I just want to reset the room and then I'll let this thing in you think I can say something yeah yeah, we'll go to Mark but so we're just resetting so this is the neuroscience and AI we're talking about a path towards solving consciousness and I think what Mike mentioned is really the central premise of the room.

03:21:45
I didn't start this room it was Paul King who started it and you guys can follow that the house up there and he hosts rooms similar like this similar to this and so what this room was really concerning is using neuroscience as a. Framework and artificial intelligence also is a framework in a construct to tackle what they call the heart problem and that the thing that Mike pointed out and in the way that he described it is very true and it's like a a problem that affects neuroscience and AI as a relation to consciousness which is that as if we go to elemental to microscopic using the principles of chemistry physics physiology medicine to describe the elemental basis of phenomena.

03:22:37

03:23:12
Articulate them communicate them throughout the community for which we can you know formulate a basis of knowledge to build on and so it really does present a problem and that's really what this room was talking about people were coming in with their various points of view to tackle that so with that being said mark.

03:23:31
I think you're up next oh I had a question I just came in recently so I appreciate you resetting the room when you say solving consciousness, like what's an example of some consciousness problems that would be getting solved did you say something about? The heart. Yeah, I think Mark was was next but absolutely we'll get to you.

03:23:55
Yes sure so thanks for having me up here. I really enjoyed the discussion this bar sherwood and I think you know, you mentioned the term framework and I think that's having the right framework to kind of attack the consciousness problem is important and Michael a lot of things you said are actually extremely spot-on so like personally I work in information science information systems analog computing and a whole bunch of things but some of the most important questions in this field are what is information?

03:24:25
What are it's properties housed information transported from two different points in the universe and what rules does information are they and as you said you kind of how you see us so clearly when you begin to ask those like very simple questions which I believe are the right questions you get a very quantized view of information and you get to see how information systems like truly work and how you know, it moves through kind of biological processes through other kind of kinetic processes throughout the universe but really what is information what are as properties 
what roles?

03:25:01
Does it obey and how is it transported? Some people believe the information has universal properties and so I would just say like having the right framework to to attack the problem and and quantizing it in the right way is definitely one extreme side of the equation but I think it holds a lot of water and so I just be curious if any of the researchers in this room Acer or others had thoughts are kind of what is information from your point of view, how's it quantized what our symbols yes.

03:25:31
I just wanted to open it up to the researchers for any of those questions if you had thoughts really quick mark. I just want to say something to you. Talk about it later. I actually want more than I was just in deep thought and this is I just had some clarity about quantum computing and again, I compared it to several things to exist in our cosmos and and it was about some of the issues that they were having with quantum computing and I kind of got some some.

03:26:05
Possibly a way of problems.

03:26:12

Okay the eight. I'm a one did you did you want to say something?

03:26:20
A one did you want to say something?

03:26:35
Can I go say what a mic on call Mike was talking about like with the interaction so. What other people were saying, um, As far as the interactions like like that's a very that's a very like way that's a very good we're putting it because if you think about it, it starts with the mother.

03:27:02
Got some research on the Yanomami tribe and so if you if you take a look at like the observation from that specific tribe the only reason why the consciousness is still having fully fully got connected and kind of seek to that con like the AI kind of like, um, Expressing yourself to the point where you you know, you understand that your mother is the only reason why you chose to become a better human or you chose to be a better better person to understand that oh we got to get this done we have to get this done and the only reason you have to change the framework when it 
comes to you feeling all this all these energies all these different energies, you you constantly have to put put put together these people in the same room and, And they could just a lot collaborate and in elaborate themselves to to to understand that conscious consciousness is just a feeling it's all about the feeling so it's like everyone wants to wants to feel like they are like the best at the best of whatever it is that they they want to do and so that's all I wanted to say like if you guys haven't seen the channel mommy tribe yeah understand what I'm trying to say bye how AI consciousness is going to solve itself by.

03:28:40

03:29:50
For for us to have your insights on the study that you've been doing and neuroscience and in AI for us to understand how is that work and how's the work of of quantum computation and AI and deep machine learning going to help us become more conscious beings and and and what consciousness are we actually aiming to achieve given that there's a variety of levels in this consciousness because it's a very precious tool AI and and and, Earning it and all of these elements and and given the research and the valuable work that you guys are doing and I'm happy for either one of you to answer.

03:30:33
I mean, you know, you sure are you doing it a PhD and there's a lot of valuable work you guys are doing here but where you where we weighs this in your view going to help consciousness evolve and what opportunities have we got ahead in how much more conscious we can become.

03:31:00
So I'm good. Yeah, I'm happy to to answer but Acer if you want to go first or Micah. Don't know go ahead yeah. Say so the first part of your question, I'm not a specialist. I'm a behavioral neuroscientist and I study depression in the eye. I really the neuroscience of emotions so the question is what is the relationship between your emotional experience awareness attention and conscious states and so for the purposes of?

03:31:43
Neuroscience, you know, the the work the task at hand is to take some things that's both fundamental to being human which we all kind of have developed socially derived language to articulate like what does it mean to be awake what does it mean to be in love what does it mean to be angry and to dissect those and break those down and reduce them as much as?

03:32:07
We can so that we could observe it in the reliable and and valid way while at the same time not obscuring the essence of that thing and so we rely on models to to be able to do that and so in my case that my central question my thesis work is there is a versioning hypothesis of depression and that hypothesis is that depression is actually a due to a deficit and interception which is your ability to engage and self-referential thinking.

03:32:42
Of your experience relative to someone else's and we we get that again intuitively because I can be depressed that due to covet. I lost my job. I'm having marital strife, my situation is it's just really deteriorating. My best friend who actually is thriving during this pandemic miraculously enough and so my the feelings of depression are what we attribute the state of depression to is not as much how I'm experiencing within my body but it's also how my thoughts and those experiences and them feeling and perception is relative to other frames or reference.

03:33:29
So as a relationship consciousness, I think of conscious mind my definition of consciousness is the internal experience of physiological processes. And I my definition intentionally vague because I think that that composes all aspects of physiology. And I think of this I give this analogy my heart racing. So the experience of my heart racing can happen a variety of contexts, it can happen if I see a loved one after I haven't seen them in a long time.

03:34:04
It can happen just before I get a message for my boss saying listen this urgent I need to see you. Both of those are the same physiological experience within my body. Can obscribe different emotions to that. One could be excitement or anticipation the other can be intense dread. And so I think of consciousness is just be awareness within the person's subjective internal experience of that state.

03:34:36
So I try to simplify it because I do my work in mice. And so when I'm talking about and I think we can learn a lot by the neuroscience of psychiatric sorting. Because all affecting neuroscientists struggle day in a day out with that question of how do I take something as complicated as a psychiatric illness schizophrenia depression PTSD OCD and reduce it in a way that I could study this in the rodent and guess what the rodent can't tell me, hey, I feel depressed and the ability to either verbalize it or show through one's actions, they're mental state is a hallmark of pretty much all psychiatric disorders as it relates to the DSM, which is, In the United States that's the criteria the manual used to diagnose psychiatric disorders and so I have to then rely on measures crudely by looking at the electrophysiology as the animal I put the animal in situations where they have to navigate a very controlled context that by looking at their behavior and how they react to their environment.

03:35:49
I can then infer their behavioral state using their physiology as a proxy. And so that's an example of how I would borrow from concepts of chemistry and physics as a release to how this neuron is paving and how much calcium influx I'm seeing and action potentials and ion channels and things like that all of those concepts.

03:36:14
I'm using that to then build all the way up to a discussion of oh when this animal traversed through this psychological stressor over time that stress accumulated and what we see as a result of that is a depressed state or animal that is behaving in a depressive like, Man.

03:36:32
There as a release to despair behavior that I see. Are about the noise that I see it exhibiting so on and so forth. And so to answer the second part of your question, which is okay, so you have this information how can we use this to help humanity and that's one that I'm deeply engaged and as an MD PhD candidate.

03:36:54
I hope to bring you know, revelations and insights that I learned at the bench at the lab and bring it into a clinical setting so that people can better understand themselves and so as they're relates to my work now with depression one of the Biggest things that I'm finding I initially started my project searching for a part of the brain that seems to be more sensitive to the depressed state as relative to other emotional states and what I found was that that same center those same neurons and code it resiliency and encoded the ability to persist in the face of challenge and so still having a what we call positive affect meaning generally the animal behaviors though, it was not going through a really cycle.

03:37:47
And magic distressful situation but we knew because we in a very formulated and standardized manner could control so that all of the animals and I'm studying are going through a psychological chronically stressful psychological state and so this answers the question. I think Mark asked about how do we look at information and and how do we pass through the along and what this sort of the irreducible smallest quantum or packet of information and I think that, As a relationship neuroscientist that comes in the way of the rigor of the study and how much we can control it and so every chart you see every bar graph you see is a packet of information again broadly an academic context and that is why it's important in my mind that when we have conversations about consciousness that there is a degree of attention to the language that we use as far as we can to approximate it because that's the only way we'll be able to bring everyone up to speed.

03:38:57
To sort of reset the room on a global sense and then allow people to go with their individual perspectives to answer and tackle this question because I don't think one person is going to be able to answer it. I think it's going to be a global effort but I think it's critical that we have foundational elements and I guess my argument for and closing is that behavior of neuroscience are well equipped to start to tackle it because this is what we have to do in our day-to-day take these very terms and conditions that humanity by a virtue of.

03:39:32

Potential medicine for depression four times more effective than any medicine on the market and this is research done last year by Roland Griffith a PhD scholar that works at John Hopkins and I just wonder if you've ever you know looked into that and and how powerful that special chemical can be to kill people from depression.

03:41:17
Thanks a lot. I just want to be clear. I hope that was an example, but yes, I my heart also goes out to people for home. I was using a basic example and then the chemical I'm sorry. I missed quick what chemical it was. It comes from. Yeah, I'm not as familiar.

03:41:42
I mean, I know what the chemical is but I'm not as familiar with that individual researcher and what they found thanks. Yeah, basically the the reach the the what cellos I'm been does is it activates when you're pathways in a very active way during a long period of time in a way that you're stimulated sentences which are touch smell imagination can't do on its own and can't you know, the conscious human can't stimulate its own consciousness on its own to that degree sob and, Being a second daily puts the human consciousness through neural pathways instance active form that it gives humans almost a bigger landscape to work on as soon as the the the become conscious to themselves in a way so to speak which allows them to actually fight addiction bad patterns because they're more equipped with more active neuropath ways than they were previously because of routine.

03:43:01
Posting relation to imagination and and and it actually enhances.

03:43:09
Yes so information has to travel through those action potentials and anytime that there's something inhibiting basically the full fidelity of that action potential firing in the chain rates so think about two to do metric points and then you have to have basically the the same discrete quanta. Of energy moving in that chain and if in any way that that breaks or basically there's a less action potential through that that chain then you lose the information that then needs to move through the body and so in many ways yeah, you know anything that comes into the body that either inhibits the ion flow or kind of opens up those channels is super important and one quick example.

03:43:57
I'll just give the room it's called the tea cup experiment and so if you imagine there's two tea custom part of you one with hot water. I'm one with cold water if you put. Your finger in each there's different information that has to fire up and get to your brain and when you observe the action potentials kind of in each scenario, you'll see that there's a different basically quanta of energy or action force that's that's then moving through the there's neurons kind of firing up your arm and so anything that's blocking that will obviously just screw up your body's ability to then to respond to it appropriately or.

03:44:34
Spawn to it in a what someone to consider just a an acceptable or kind of. The acceptable matter. That's a great framework that quan did you did you go oh no um I didn't go yet so yes like now um I got some examples of like a solvent consciousness when you mention like, you know trying to solve depression and everything's not like I got a better understanding of like the the topic of the Roman everything what what what our well mention is that my friend told me one time that henna his girlfriend they were all mushrooms and he said that I got to a point where they could lead each other mines and he was talking to each other telepathically and stuff like that and they wasn't even speaking forever so like expect.

03:45:18

03:48:00
I don't get too. Far as the physicality of the mind the physicality if you will in the mind itself. I certainly talk about neural pathways and I have this unique ability to hear when neuropathways are being in essence deconstructed and then reconnected I hear clicks and pops in my mind and when I work psychically, I'm also a healer and a shaman and when I work cyclically with my clients it I I piggyback on their healing and I hear like pop.

03:48:38
Rocks in in my head because I I'm hearing the deeper the healing goes and the healing if you will is those nor the the traumas being deconstructed from the physical sense of of those neural connections but as far as the connection between consciousness and the science of the mind I come from more of how the mind works and how the main sees things and there's three.

03:49:11
Foundational components and that it's it's that the mind only sees itself as itself right so the mind only knows I am so from healing standpoint it looks like the mind doesn't know I'm mad at her the mind knows I'm mad at myself the mind doesn't know he did this to me the mind knows I did this to myself right so that's number one number two, the mind doesn't know the difference between past present and future right so anything that we conceive and perceive up in the future.

03:49:46
The mine feels like it's experiencing it right now and from this same idea from the standpoint of looking into our past but. The most interesting thing that we're coming across now is the work with the super conscious mind and the idea that. We not only have to look at the IM component, which is the greater picture of our oneness, you know reference back to that the mind only knows itself but the idea that we're.

03:50:20
We're needing to look at the identity fabric of the subconscious which is that I am somebody who so not I am but I am somebody who is bad or I am somebody who cheats on my boyfriend and to heal that component but stepping further now with this work with a super conscious mind is that we become the observer so it's I am somebody who.

03:50:51
know directly how to relate these concepts to the physicality of the mind itself. I just know how the mind works because when I go in with different healing modalities, I understand certain what I call word coding if you will for instance when somebody says I am wrong if you release that the wrongness then you release the trauma if somebody says for instance men are wrong if, You release that that men are wrong with that word coding the word wrong you release the original trauma that created that belief system within the mind and there's hundreds of other words that are I I call coding so I'm more of a software nerd as far as the mind is concerned versus the hardware nerd, thank you.

03:51:52
I'm done speaking. So I kind of wish the Acer was still here because I would connect that to a question the Acer in that, you know, so I guess he's got these um in his content is in his paper limit, let me see if I can pull it up real quick the paper was.

03:52:08
Information let's see non-trivial information enclosure or information closure theory of consciousness is right that's what Asia was sharing and it was a big part of this group but he took off but that's okay, um so that so what I what I'm sort of like the idea here that I wanted to ask him was about you know, he's basically saying that you know, he talked about EEG being coarse-grained and so maybe I can put this question to.

03:52:37
To the. To share it is some do you know, what what he means by eg being coarse-grained or basically because what I'm saying is it you know, he's talking about basically I think a temporal pattern when he's talking about EEG and it sounds like his his ICT or or NICT nontrivial.

03:53:03
Wait, so ICT is yeah, it sounds like he's got go ahead. Oh no I was just gonna explain that back component of it and I think what his theory essentially was showing was that we have all of these changes, you know, we the cells are going through cell cycle at the level of the brain the neurons are firing action potentials yet all of that activity is beneath our conscious awareness and he says that when you take those those processes and scale them up.

03:53:41
And I think that's where he calls the course course grading you scale them up then they reach a certain threshold that we become aware and so for example before we recognize our increase in our heart rate our heart has already started to contract faster and so there's a period where things are changing or the system is dynamic which she calls microscopic changes, there's a point beyond which if it happens enough to pass a threshold then we're aware and I think that, The mental principle of taking these smaller microscopic changes and scaling them up is his foundational basis for his description of computing sorry conscious.

03:54:29
How is he scaling him up with awareness or with AI or different way? I think it was a. Michael you can. I'm not so I'm not sure that he completely even he knew completely what what what that with the scaling up was I was trying to ask him what what that you know, what I'm what a macro representation was and I think it's still an open research question sure did you have a different answer?

03:54:57
Yeah, I agree with you. Um, so whatever so I had a big aha moment when I was reading his paper and again, I wish he was here to answer this but um, it's that so you heard of the concept of engrams or the idea that that um, maybe like a representation of something or somebody is is um is is an engram which would be like a which would represent like a body of activity, um, A sort of virtual macroscopic object that floats in your mind that represents people have heard of that yeah.

03:55:33
I I just have the feeling that his that his uh what he's referring to is like um is like an engram and and that um, he's talking about like a court if course grain is like for EEG is it is a is a frequency pattern and um, so maybe he's talking about like for him.

03:55:52
I've been skimming his paper for the past two hours while listening to this audio and and I'm, Thinking that. It's like you know at a high level high level idea is a temple of spatial frequency pattern like like let's say that like, you know how like a if you have a if you have a a song that's played on a piano, right imagine your brain is a piano and the engram is the song and so the brain is like the piano keys that are like they're playing they're playing the tune but it doesn't but it's but it's it's the tune itself is virtual in the sense that different parts of the brain can play different parts of that tune, like you know, how like it's not not it's not necessarily true that the same neurons are gonna find.

03:56:33
Our every time when you when you look at a bottle. It might be different neurons that fire each time but if those different neurons are still managing to play the that tune then it's it, they'll be like that the beat like some maybe like your brain has a lot of different pianos and and so different different pianos like have the capability of playing that tune and in each time that tune comes in it could be played by a different piano and that that could sort of explain why there's not like a one-to-one correlation between what you see in your neural activity.

03:57:10
And then I was thinking about what Rachel was saying about the how you know in in the therapy that she practices if you think of a person and and change your internal representation and how you think about them and maybe like imagine them doing something different that that has a has an effect for for her and and and the people that she she works with well.

03:57:35
I mean, I was just thinking about just imagine what if there's something to. Like a neural correlate of that that there was sort of like relates to like you know basically high level of macroscopic frequent temple spatial frequency patterns that are representing what what Rachel's thinking about and then and then by thinking about it you're in in changing the context you're you're changing the tune and you're but you're changing the tune of a virtual virtual concept that now is gonna be played a different way no matter which piano in your brain is gonna play it and and so I just thought that was a cool idea and I wanted to share it.

03:58:13
I mean yesterday in in reflections, especially, Neuroc neural correlate neural correlations from research that that maybe shared knows about and other people know about. Yeah, I mean I I I'm a huge fan of the the engram work that has been coming out MIT so from a neurobiological perspective and we talk about m grams it really is constricted or restricted to cluster of neurons that are I'm locked to an event and so the way that this often studied in a neuroscience context is it in relationship to to trauma and so what we can do is take advantage of a principle that all 
neurons.

03:58:56
Aid the undermined assumption is that they fire exponentials and they're encoded so depending on what that neuron is encodes so it can be sensory experience it can be a combination of those but no whatever that thing is, it fires an ex potential as a response to that event. And so when in a neuron fires an action potential not only do we have electrical activity happening.

03:59:24
There's also gene transcription happening. And there's a specific gene called CFOS which is called an early activating gene and essentially that gene can be then used to put a time stamp on when it that neuron fire. And so this allows us to start to perturb structure function relationships, because the question is where when we're talking about what where is X?

03:59:53
Encoded in the brain, you know me I'm talking about where is depression and coded in the brain. We could take advantage of the fact that in the experimental context we can design a traumatic event for this mouse to experience and then at the same time once the traumatic event happens we can then take advantage of this early activating gene and we can say wow after the animal got a light foot shot because we're not trying to you know harm the animal just give them something that will arouse.

04:00:28
You know, whatever part is linked to a verse of experiences and by way of proximating trauma and so after that where we have a signature based off of that gene which we've been able to engineer to have a fluorescent tag so that we can identify it. Okay, this is the region and these are the cluster of your eyes and then the way that we can test whether or not those neurons were indeed important and encoding the memory of the aversive experience.

04:01:03
Or of the trauma where we cost fear memory so we can bring them into an a remote context. So nothing stressful nothing aversive no trauma and then selectively activate only those CFOS labeled neurons and look at what is the animal do. And so one of the very first experiments where this technology was used, they brought the animal into this neutral context and excited only those neurons not the neighboring ones not and this so now we're getting well beyond just.

04:01:38
Okay, it's the amygdala or it's just the glutamatergic neurons of the amygdala no these are the specific neurons that were active at the time that that event happened and what happens is that when they're selectively activated you actually see the animal behaving in the way that they were when the trauma occurred so they freeze and they will freeze for a very long time and you would almost think wait is this animal being actively shocked and the answer is no.

04:02:07
And conversely studies regarding the opposite where they would allow the animal to get a treat, you know animals, they really mice in particular they love sucrose lace water, so it's almost like you know a juice. Itself same thing you can allow the animal to enjoy this treat and then say what your odds were active then and then you put them in a traumatic experience or there's a task that is used a lot in a behavior neuroscience called force slum test where you essentially drop the the mouse into a bucket of water and they know how to swim so it's just stressful to them, but it's not you know, something that they'll drown and things like that and so normally my school swim for a little while and then they just they stop they give up and so.

04:02:56
This has been used throughout psychiatry to test actually antidepressants because if you can give an animal let's say an SSRI in this task and they will swim for a much longer period of time that animals that don't and so it's been a test of spray like behavior but anyway and as it relates to activating the engram the positive experience and grammar when they activate that during this task the animal continues to swim almost as though it remembers oh wait, there's more to life and so the way that this can be.

04:03:31
You can conjecture what this means is that this is an example of how you can scale something that's on a neuronal level using just principles of neuroscience to then start to get it, oh wow what does emotional states mean what does optimism mean what is pessimism mean and so as we talk about consciousness we could do that to fundamental components of consciousness such as attention versus awareness versus self-appraisal or ability to look at one's state.

04:04:06
And so I think that is like an elegant example of how we can can use certain types of technology to get us for.

04:04:18
Yes, um, it almost reminded me some of like I don't know if it's exactly the same thing but kind of like what hypnosis accomplishes if you hypnotize the person about the trauma to to feel differently about it.

04:04:35
Yeah, I mean it forms the basis of CBT cognitive behavior of therapy where you are and sort of playing off of the role of cognition and and it's a role or it's effect on emotional state and allowing a person to engage and encourage a deeper connectedness to the question about something that might be consciousness related.

04:05:00
Sure go for it doesn't look like a neuroscientist. So like it's a condition is quite authenticia it's like if you tried to visualize something with your mind you can't conjure up into images so I had noticed like early last year. I was happening with me like if I tried to visualize something it was just dark or whatever like that like it was I wasn't I wasn't saying anything but if I dreamed though, I had these dreams that are so vivid it's hard to tell them apart from real life or not, like I only know that my dream is a dream because the call float or something like that.

04:05:35
I'm like, okay cars on float in real life, so this is this is a dream but To me is like okay, I know I can visualize because it's happening in my dreams like under my brain to do it but like right now if I try to visualize like a star or basketball or something like that.

04:05:51
Seem like a like darkness. I'm trying to trying to like visualize and like, um, Be able to because Donald because I guess it seems like um unconsciously when I sleep all this visual stuff has happened, but consciously if I try to you know, like hey visualize something it doesn't happen and um, I've been like researching our allies and stuff like that and um, I'm kind of cute.

04:06:15
I'm kind of curious so so let's do I mean time if you talk about a basketball for a second like when I I can visualize a basketball and I see something that that I guess it could be round or spherical it could be orange it could have lines on it right are you or you so do you you're saying you just see darkness, but can you maybe describe the visual properties of the of a basketball anyways?

04:06:42
Oh okay yes yes. I definitely can like to like a basketball like circle like maybe a orange juice pages color our dark dark gauges color has like the the black kind of lines on it then it kind of has a little circle grip things on it, so I have my eyes closed while I was saying all that but like what I see would be very close to like if you just, Turned your phone off and the screen is dark but then I do see bits of like a like staticky baby like a dark greenish thing that is like like within the darkness but it's this like darkness and the dark green thing and then like if I would if I was to to touch my eyelids, then the green stuff like flickers, but it's absolutely mostly dark but at the in my dream though, I could see the whole basketball and it'll it'll look like like a real basketball.

04:07:35
Um, but I came across some stuff about like narrow pathways and stuff like that and um and stuff like that so so like, um, I've been I've been trying to see like if I could do that like because I'm cuz like like either like try to make some new narrow pathways to visualize or like are these narrow pathways is being used when I dream but then they're not they're not being used now are trying to like see um, Like it's like a neuroscience has any input about like how the the brain works and stuff like that that might be able to help people with ampage their visualize it says it says it's like one out of every 50 people have amputated when you try to visualize.

04:08:15
They only see darkness. And like I don't try to I don't wet his name to that like I don't say that I have that because I know that that's like I know sometimes limits and beliefs can help people not heal from stuff or whatever but that just that just the best way to like keep it simple and try to explain what experience when I try to when I try to visualize.

04:08:38
I can speak to that a little bit. I'm Taekwon not from a neuroscientist perspective, but if there's a misconception I think about visualization as far as conscious visualization and especially when in a circuit's of those who are clairvoyant and and practice clear essences and people think that if they say, oh I can see this tiger that they're actually seeing.

04:09:10
Peanut similarly to elusive dream state like when just like you said, you don't know the difference between real life and and the state that you're in while you're dreaming but it's not that it's it's a it's a it's a sense that is I guess in a way consider it a sixth sense right it's a sense of something without needing to consciously depict it or categorize it like much of the brain likes to it's a it's a sensing of it, that is what?

04:09:45
Actually happening when people are consciously telling you especially those that are clairvoyant that they see something I'm not familiar with the condition. I'm not seeing it's not an actual condition. I'm instead wanting to encourage you to use your other senses to bring in those capabilities without focusing on what you don't have.

04:10:09
Things okay thank you yes I've been I've been trying to do that like sometimes um like like I had dreams that came true before and like, I don't know that's under the category of flair going abilities, sometimes if I fall asleep like when I'm kind of drowsy and when I fall asleep, I'll have these like clairvoyant visions and they oh and and yet and like this the graphicsness that I'm changing sometimes it could be like a like a real life flashback of something.

04:10:38
I could see a real thing and look like in a circle or sometimes. I might see like cartoonish images or I'll see things but I really see those things. Like like like and like in detail um, when when I try to cuz like like sometimes like say like if somebody um, if it's like, okay draw your draw a room and you're apartment and um the people that could visualize it like I could see it they could draw it real good it's like with me it's like I will have to like it's like it's only for so much stuff.

04:11:04
I can remember since I cases I don't have the picture reference. I got one of the details reference. I want to work on being able to. Like I want to visualize because like it it does it does limit it does limit me in a bunch in a bunch of ways like not having that type of information so so if I may I wanted to sort of justify or I wanted to sort of like bring sort of like connect this to everything to the topic because I think it is it is relevant to our topic in terms of you know, talking about what why why you know in terms of talking about what what the neuroscience of of consciousness and how we can basically create a computational model of consciousness.

04:11:47
And and so it was brought up earlier that you know, one way to describe what consciousness could be is a basically a case of of modeling basically like excess interlinked modeling so like so like it's imagine like and by modeling. I mean, like like if you if you if you're looking at something right now, let's say it's a let's say true phone.

04:12:15
And your phone I your phone is like you it's is it so your phone is in front of you and you know, you know that your phone is in front of you but at the same time your brain is making is making a 3d model of a phone and and and that 3d model is it you know when you're when when a computational system makes it 3d model you call it you call it a rendering right it and it consists of many there's many different.

04:12:42
The there's many different properties there's it's it your brain is is associating you know, like like how it feels how it looks the orientation of the phone there's a great work by Jeff Hawkings who wrote he wrote this new book it's called um a thousand brains by Jeff Hockings and he talks about how a neuro column is going to you bring has a lot of neural columns and and you might have just one neuro column that's going to model each of the objects in your experience right now and you know in terms of like, you know, the stuff that you're seeing.

04:13:17
Specifically it's probably going to be mauled by your your visual cortex, but that stuff has to be like so it's like you have a neuro column and your visual cortex that's that's that is that is contributing to the model of your of your phone but you also have you know, you have other sensory input areas, you know, like, you know sensory cortex and an audio cortex and those the three primary and in the visual cortex, those are the three primary input areas for for sensory stuff into your brain and that includes.

04:13:52
But but so but you have you have this some sort of like what happens is the idea is it's that maybe all of these different objects in your environment are being represented by brain activity right now, and if if a person is is able to have an amazing, you know visual dreams but they're not able to sort of have those dreams when they're awake it could it could you could just say well it could be just because the the part of your brain that it's doing that processing is currently busy, it's currently busy rendering what you're saying.

04:14:27
Right now and that's why it's hard to visualize something that is not present but what you what you could try it in is a sensory deprivation tank in that if it will block out all of the the the light and all the sound and you just sort of sit on water, it's like a very salty and and what happens is without without drugs your brain starts to have these amazing visualizations that are they're dreamlike or some people compared to hallucinating with with psychedelics, but but because you're your brain isn't.

04:15:02
Um, and and one of the things that I do is yeah, so if you this can also happen if you can get into a room where you just block out a hundred percent of the light that not even one percent of light can be there any and maybe a blindfold as well just to make sure that absolutely zero percent of light is happening and then so then your visual cortex is free up to do other things and then you'll start to see things they just start to visualize things.

04:15:25
That you couldn't because your brain because your visual system was was occupied currently. So and that sense I think that. You can try that but but but yeah, but the idea is that we are basically creating visual models or graphical models in our brains and and that that's a that's that's a part that's a piece of what's happening with that with with neurosciences that's leading to artificial consciousness.

04:15:56
I think so much like on the definitely the definitely helps and nobody nobody ever like mentioned that like that. To me it was it was one other person that I talked to they had trapped they had problems visualizing too and I think they improved it some but they said that a day their brain was like was like too stressed adopted that was part of it that they that you had to be like kind of relaxed division too stressed.

04:16:24
So when someone you said that that could definitely be be a case where it's like, you know, it's overwhelmed right now maybe doing, you know, like doing these renders of like the phone and stuff like that my environment, but when I'm sleeping it's not so that I'm able to.

04:16:42
But yeah and that's what I was gonna say before we get to Donnier is that you know, this is me this is one of the interesting things about the intersection between psychiatry and consciousness where some will posit that psychiatric conditions actually result from a deficit in consciousness or the partial consciousness and one of the things that I do know with you know, my work in psychiatry is that a lot of times trauma can hijack our sensory experience and specifically if you have complex PTS.

04:17:17
D where there's a lot of circuitry disturbances or I would say stress that impacts your sensory experience. Sometimes, you know things can be hijacked such as the ability to engage in voluntary century conjuring or imagery and so that's just something I leave you with but donor I don't know if I'm pronouncing it correctly.

04:17:43
Yeah, you're right. Cool. You're next something. Oh, um if I could say one last thing something, um strange, I have to be one time which had me feeling like okay, it's more hope for me to visualize was that it was a shaman that I talked to and I tried to think about memory reasons stuff like that, but I can't see them.

04:18:09
Relationally but I can't get up but that makes me feel like you know, what they're there. I just don't got access to them, um, but that lit. I don't know. I think the sound with their consciousness like that consciousness was on some type of level where they're able to look at people's people's memories.

04:18:33
Oh, are we doing a Q&A session? Europe, whatever your thoughts you would like me to reset the room. I can do that otherwise you can go for it. Yeah, actually the thing that you said about Zagat was like this I get your conditions and problem of consciousness, you know, the more I deep dive into DSM the less makes sense.

04:19:03
I mean, for example, I work with data and it's it's just not. In some places or over the detailed in other places to do to try to build a consistent model of a technique psychiatric condition for example. Also, the psychiatric anthology is kind of you know in the dumps right now and and and I was wondering if there there are other approaches to phenomena of psychosis or others disturbances.

04:19:49
Yeah, so that was first thing and the second thing was about AI.

04:19:58
And and and the problem of the debugging AI which is like next impossible if the neural network is complex enough or souls complex enough tasks and I was thinking that it's in it's not impossible because you don't have technology but because the model itself thinks about the world. In in an unexplainable way like, for example a recommender system.

04:20:37
Recommend another article. Person based on. My. Particular. But. Come. On as a metrics of some opportunities and page views and etcetera. So, I'm productively enough. I was thinking that the real AI debugger is some kind of. Psychotherapist, you know way. Because it's. The the system gets so complex and.

04:21:21
Actually is it? Is it possible that we are spending too much time in understanding and replicating the systems that find in ourselves instead of creating something that? Puts work. Which which is you know, artificial not not copying ourselves our internal opportunity, yeah, thank you. Great. I can definitely take the first part of that and maybe Mica you can take the AI aspect of it so I definitely agree with you about the way that we classify suggested disorders it's absolutely in need of a free boot and in response to it though, they are the NIH or NIMH National Institutes of.

04:22:24
US taking great strides to tour that in and so they came up with this thing called our doc which is stands for research domain criteria and essentially what they're trying to do is build an entire framework for how do you discuss psychiatric conditions and it's meant for researchers and those who are applying for grants through NIH who are going to be extending a psychiatric disorders to classifying group their observations on a range of different criteria such as genetics.

04:22:59
Molecule cell circuitry behavior physiology and self-report and what they are hoping to do with that is to pick out themes that are consistent across psychiatric disorders so that we can have more commonalities and common languages and motifs so for example, we know that it's schizophrenia there is this pessimistic like thinking it's almost like very rigid very pessimistic very negative and then and this particularly observed and folks who have what's called negative symptoms.

04:23:34
Of the schizophrenia so everyone thinks of you know, psychosis and schizophrenia's person who's erratic and almost like a psychoactive state hallucinating and things like that, there's another component to schizophrenia where the person is catatonic in or sort of muted and and and so that's an example of a characteristic of of schizophrenia that is also common and depression because depression that at this hallmark is a pessimistic rigid negative thought process of cognitive process and so the idea.

04:24:09
With our doc is that yes you group it that would be a behavioral grouping but then the idea would be for example me as a depression researcher. I'm trying to understand the underlying molecular or cellular basis for this cognitive rigidity and negative stuff thought or you know, self-talk I should say whereas someone else who's studying schizophrenia and that component of schizophrenia who's also looking at the molecular and genetic basis the idea would be we should if it's true that this is a, Fun.

04:24:44
The middle property of the human affect and experience that perhaps our independent studies or inquiries on this behavioral trait should converge. And so it's to hope that we'd have what would emerge from our fundamental processes that we can group across the human condition. And then it's you know, that way of looking at it that you could scale up and say okay, wow look at all of these emergent properties that may scope or landscape.

04:25:16
I'm sorry what architect what we call. Consciousness for example. But yeah, I can leave it to a Micah to discuss the the AI component. Holy fucking shit. Thank you. I mean, I mean, I was bothering each and every expert room on psychiatry for for the last month of clubhouse and now the our dog.

04:25:41
From from the first looks at looks like something that actually could work. Thank you. Thank you so much. Yeah, no problem. Yeah. Daniel would you be wanting to maybe paraphrase that the highlights of your of your takeaway from what Jared said and also then rephrase the AI part of the questions.

04:26:03
The paraphrase was short said. Yeah. Yeah in your own words. I'm just curious to sort of what was the phenomena which is observable and then the there is the DSM or whatever manual you can use and they're labeling and they're labeling is essentially is written with bias like cultural bias

04:26:43
There's comorbidity issue etc. So our dog is a framework that could deconstruct. Those you know, huge longest constructs like schizophrenia or psychopathy or whatever. And. Look at it. A more in sync level the level that's in sync with biology and neuroscience and etcetera. So so that we could restructure it in a way that makes sense and make models that.

04:27:31
The definition of a good model is not how how good it explains phenomena, but how good it can predict the phenomenon. So yeah, sure if. Me. That's right. And then what what's the AI question?

04:27:59
So for what I understood they conversation that. Goes about the AI and consciousness is it let's replicate some of the mechanics that we learn about ourselves. Into you know, the VA AI amount world and. So yeah the problem was. That AI is really hard to debug it's a black box.

04:28:31
And yeah. I was you know, I was really.

04:28:43
Knowing that. And I. You know.

04:28:51
Maybe it's it's it's about future. I mean.

04:28:57
Not. Replicate exact mechanisms of.

04:29:10
Losing my time, it's a daily and.

04:29:20
That doesn't make sense all right and so I guess part of what you're saying earlier was that a huge scale there's some huge problems with no networks when they think a lot of data something like that. I'm just trying to sort of like them okay, so I mean, you know what one of them one of the issues I guess that you can look at with I'm just trying to see if I can narrow it down to something that was actually something that you ask instead of talking about general.

04:29:55
General AI problems that's the only thing so I mean I guess it could be general or this could be related to what you asked, you know, there's the there's the there's the the problem of of overfitting when you have models are just you have AM we just you're dealing with you so much freaking data into your AI model it's just doing it like a massive job and and and so then you people do people that there's a number of techniques people use to to deal with, you know, the errors that can result overfitting type of errors or you know, you know addressing there's a lot of there's a lot of techniques you can.

04:30:30
Use for for. You know, I guess a word that comes up in this scenario is gradient descent and and and another idea that comes up is drop out and and and so there's a bunch of techniques that people are using with the current incarnation of deep learning no networks when they get very large there's sources sources of weird problems that come out but um, But these problems won't go away with the in the can in the with the current way that deep learning is done what what so what researchers are working on are you architectures for how to design an artificial neural network and and so this is like the future beyond deep learning no networks I guess and you know that someone so you hear some people talking about like self-supervised networks and that's it, that's that's an example of.

04:31:25
Some new things that people are trying to change the traditional deep learning network to and you know self supervised networks transfer transformer networks you hear that term there's there's something Jeffrey Hampton is doing something called a capsule neural networks and then and I'm sorry there's a new one he's working on called.

04:31:48
I forget what it's it's not game it's but it's like it's how he capsules was like 2017 and then he's got a new one it's it starts with the G and I bet if I look it up that I could find it real quick but there's also um, you know menta has some really interesting ideas that involved basically creating artificial neuro columns in a similar.

04:32:11
I guess a similar to the capital's idea and these um, so with a with a traditional neural network, you have this like, you know, it's it's it's called narrow it. What I'm assuming you're covering your bike.

04:32:30
Okay, um, so with the traditional. With that no no worries with a traditional known network, you're um. It people call them people refer to it as narrow AI because you can you can basically you can train it one way you can for example accomplish on that we're known network to you know, the the ideal one might have just it might only be trained on 256 by 250 to six resolution images or you could do another one that's that's on by 1024 by 1024 resolution images or you can do another one that's like a you know high resolution but but you can't have the traditional one you couldn't have it like do all three different scales of resolution, it wasn't general enough to do any scale of resolution in.

04:33:16
Be able to process that and so um some of the new models are like well, hey, wait a second what if we had a you know three different neural networks there were all trained on these different kinds of of different resolutions and what happened is when you get an image to the first layer it routes it to like it recognizes, oh this is 256 by 2 to 6.

04:33:37
I'm gonna route this to the part of the the the neural network that specializes in in processing 256 by 2:56 images, so that's so now it's now you you get new incoming data that could be. So yeah, so the next step beyond this is maybe you'll get new income data that you've that is that a resolution you've never seen before.

04:33:57
And the neural network is going to sort of be able to generalize, you know, generalize our parcel out that new resolution to parts of its network that are going to be as close as possible and capability to processing that that that new information that this is at a resolution it's never learned before and so this comes about because of like concepts like modules or neural columns or capsules and, It's it's the idea that in our brains we have we also have narrow columns and we have micro columns and we have neuro circuits and and different scales of of of things happening where where you know art stuff comes to incoming senses and it goes to our v1 and it goes to our b2 and it goes to all the other layers of the visual cortex and all the all the layers of the somatosensory cortex and all the layers of the audio cortex and and then it and then it's cycles back to the to the thalamus and it's just it's really fantastic all the different ways and information travels.

04:35:07
But in it's sort of like it's so much more complex in the simple idea that that that is very contemplating neuroscience and also in machine learning that learning something is sort of like a hierarchical process. I mean, there's a hierarchy hierarchical process of learning but there's so much more beyond just that that one concept to learning and so what what I think I see happening is um, I see that a lot of the the new ideas of people understanding.

04:35:37
That is coming from you know, a hundred year hundred plus years of neuroscience, but but it's not like they're these ideas are totally new but but there's there's a lot of like sort of like, um, A continual flow of learning that comes from neuroscience that is making its way into new architectures for for deep learning so so some of the problems that we're having with people learning today that you you probably hearing about in the AI groups are they the the theres, you know mitigation approaches where it where they where they're doing things like like drop out and and you know gradient descent and in different indifferent sort of techniques to do to deal with overfitting and then there's just new, Architectures that are designed to basically be general learning algorithms like that like a brain is by by parsing out different sorts of learning capabilities to different parts of the network, so you can have sort of a specialization.

04:36:42
Happening. Sort of it's it's some yeah. I I just it's there's there's so many different ways to like. Um, yeah I should stop there because I was just gonna say that that the either for everything that I can say someone can come back with the counter argument such as.

04:37:05
Yeah, I mean I. Go on. It's yeah. Question. I have is and. I'm AI you know how there's there's this new interview process called higher view where they use. AI to like analyze people's faces and try to like, Find like attributes of like the performance of the person how how are.

04:37:41
Systems. That are being made in AI. Being moderated when things like neurotransmitters and their application within how they work with neural networks how that how neurotransmitter that.

04:38:08
In the sense of being left out a little bit from Oh no network. I wanted to say something. I heard it in another room clubhouse about somebody that they worked they were gonna go there but they said that. They are also that they're using people's phone datasets going through so like there's probably a part of it too like what you're saying, but some of it is like, okay.

04:38:37
What are they looking at on YouTube? What are they searching up online or what do they buy in are like even other parts of it where it's like they said, Recording people talk.

04:38:51
The process to. Ask me so they're collecting pretty recorded data is the way that's what you're. Talking like like that they use a lot of that stuff like what you comment on. To to try to see like okay like people. Person if they if they if they they say this type of thing or if there's like say somebody is heavy into like say somebody's dissin one president or something like that or whatever and the company doesn't want to just like your property won't get picked up like, you know fix things about it today get more fair because they don't think that that's fair but, They said that's out there, that was happening, hey guys.

04:39:34
On the stage. I heard you speak in another few hours ago is are you there can ask you a question?

04:39:51
Neuroscience and just wanted to ask you is he here by the way. I just wanted him here yeah. So you know, I had a question and about way, hold on. I I just want to make sure cuz I did right now speaking. I just wanted to make sure you didn't cut her off.

04:40:12
Um, kind of sorry.

04:41:09
Facial gestures and would be interested in knowing people's thoughts on that. I think that they are not actually processing your reactions or something but calculating the probability that you will how many months that you will last and if you will. If you will fit the company like that as far as I know.

04:41:52
The respond to that if nobody else is going. Okay. Sure okay so I I so I'm just gonna quickly try to answer this. I feel like the current state of AI is not there, you know, it's it's seems like a to be honest a slightly hyped as well because all it's doing is stated they're taking all that data and it doesn't know what's happening in a scene or a frame of pictures like a human brain does like a human brain reasons.

04:42:34
So it's just ingesting that data and trying to label that sort of a data now. I mean, it could miss labels certain things, you know, you know like if you if you show some emotion and it records it even with the facial muscles and all that. I mean, you could be responding to something like the context, you know, the thing with computers is they don't get the context like humans do so.

04:43:07
I think if it's still. Not a foolproof system. I think I might have something to add to reds questions so so red asked also about neurotransmitters and and sort of like the question was sort of like well, you know AI is not really doing anything with with neurotransmitters at this point and and that's true and but I think if like if it did I think that, We might with that you know if a neural network was going to process the reception of transmitters that that's just that's that's you sort of like what you say well what you have to I mean the way I have to think about it and I guess other people can think about this differently is that a neurotransmitter would have to be it's like that that is the input information you'd have to reduce it into some sort of you know, like you can input an image or you can input sound and then it gets reduced to it gets trapped into basically it's um, You know presented to the first layer of the neural network and and so at that point the neurotransmitter is reduced to a signal right and so the signal has what are the what are the properties of this signal what is it does it have nervousness neurotransmitter when it intersects with with?

04:44:26
With the with with with the with the nerve with the receptors like an NDMA receptor in the brain when it's received by a receptor is is it causing a very specific temple spatial pattern that can be quantified and into you know ones in jurors and if so I mean, I think that sounds I think it sounds plausible but that that then you could have a and a deep learning now in that work process neurogen neurotransmitters, and and maybe the brain is doing something like that where the the neurotransmitters in some.

04:45:01
Sense represents a signal pattern of that could be translated to ones and zeros for a computer but but the brain is taking you know, temple spatial frequencies somehow and and and that's part of the part of a super low level calculation, right and I mean the there's there's a ton to that topic.

04:45:22
I don't know if if Sherry wants to talk about neurotransmitters a little bit but but but in terms of neural networks yeah, they would just be that would just be an input and then, That and then so whether you're training with neural networks if training training that neural network on neurotransmitters in the first place, then you could send a new neurotransmitters and it would it would be able to recognize what it's being what's being received or if it receives something that's never seen before it would be able to generalize what that what that could be.

04:45:56
I'll just quite imposed there and, We sing that sorry then you're going oh thank you but isn't monoi mean or in neural transmitter like hypothesis for depression or other conditions like outdated outdated and for the main part because in your transmitters are like like a, When you are trying to then when you pull this string there is always something that tingling on the other side but you cannot actually predict like the dopamine it's responsible for so many fundamental things and conditions that you just cannot.

04:46:54
But what will be the result the effect like dopamine is restless legs, it's an idol since it's yeah. Um, yeah, so, um, I. Think the this raises good question on whether AI could ever possibly reach the point of being technically quote-unquote human consciousness, if that makes sense it least like a mapping out like a neural network to match human consciousness would not necessarily be quite it.

04:47:38
Yeah. Yeah and to read point I want to add quickly I think I was after Daniel was quickly wanted to add this is how does the like you know how the brain has recursive thoughts meaning, you know, I can think what red is thinking and then I can think what and you know, and then I can think like the meta thinking process like thinking about thinking to me, sometimes it feels like that's like the that's like the seed of consciousness and humans like they can think about thinking.

04:48:16
It, you know and more levels deeper down and I I am really not sure how that happens in a learning or a machine learning system where you are your your your statistically curve fitting, you know within within within some data and so so that's where I I feel like there is more to the at least the human intelligence part, which I think the neuroscientist in this room can talk more about but you know even reasoning and even.

04:48:51
I say reasoning by analogy, you know, like comparing two things like a cookie to a child who's a cookie monster like us like what will be the relative size of a of a like a normal size cookie would be nothing would you know, they were for them the large size could be something different, you know, if they yeah, you know, so that's sort of like reasoning by analogy.

04:49:16
I don't know if the system can do that yeah, it can label data very effectively but, You know, other cognitive abilities of reasoning like even knowing what's happening in a. If like you know there's a good example. I think one of those researchers that this example and I'm just gonna tell this example is you know, when we give images to the system to a convolution neural network, like multiple images of like a millions of images of a cat or a dog next time it sees it's in a some configuration it kind of gets so this is a cat this is a dog, but if you give a picture where saved dog is holding a dumbbell, you know, the the system completely breaks down it's very fragile, whereas a human.

04:50:09
My mind is very robust in that way because you don't we know knowledge of physics and biology and we think we totally get it that that's a fake picture, you know, so like, you know, there's some work out there in adversity of networks. I think you guys are already familiar with it, but I think that's that's that's also a problem to solve before we can get getting even to consciousness.

04:50:36
I might be wrong though. Right? I believe after Ian did you have a question yes, it was not too distributed from terulate if I may just link to that and we ask it together. Sure so I write excitation fantasy. I am your lady hello to everybody in your. Zone and good morning my question would be.

04:51:10
That. Consciousness is an emergent quality, so we just you know lumped together enough neurons and it would reach a certain level of complexity. We will get consciousness and so to have a human AI. You give it just we always give it human like training or do we need specific structures we need mirror neurons we need something interesting which now we think is the motor of consciousness the same way in marine neurons are as I studied said were responsible for guessing what somebody else is thinking.

04:51:46
I'm interested because he writes about this stuff, thank you. Sure I think Mike and I really have slightly different definitions for it but my definition of consciousness and again, I guess we should first be clear about whether we mean by consciousness and I think in the original conception of this room who that moderator is not here, but it was the awareness of one's perceptual experience more or less and so there are degrees of consciousness and I think a lot of times through part of this psychology.

04:52:26
Science we ascribe consciousness is sort of we think about higher order nature of consciousness, which is involved concepts like theory of mind and the ability to have to it. What another is is thinking feeling how they're going to act planning for those types of behavior engagements and things like that, but in my definition as a behavior on neuroscientists and that's an effective neuroscientist that who studies psychiatric disorders.

04:52:56
I have constrained my definition to a very simple one which is basically the inner subjective experience of physiological changes within the body and that involves not only just the central nervous system, but also the peripheral nervous system also the immune system. And so all of that that that confluence of all of those factors happening at the same time what that feels like at any given moment is a state of consciousness for me.

04:53:28
And so to answer the other part of your question what are the components that would make up such a definition of consciousness it would involve everything that comprises of the physiological system so it's gonna be the genes the molecules the neurons the ensembles of neurons the clusters of every regions of neurons the neural communication by which information is relate throughout the brain the interface of the brain with the blood and the vascular system as well as the, Markers that make up and we see as we begin to allow that definition to come into place.

04:54:11
I can think of many examples where a person's consciousness is altered by way of things that are happening within their body and so we can look at something that has been explored a lot which is the context of anesthesia so a person who goes under generalized anesthesia as we know can go in and out of consciousness and so the question.

04:54:38
Is okay well using that deaf my definition of consciousness what is involved with bringing a person in and out of consciousness well it all depends on the level of which we want to discuss and I think you know, as I said earlier in the room, I think when we talk about consciousness a everyone has their interpretation and it's their lived experience and intuition but it also is people have different levels of tolerance to the minutia and that the painstaking details that aren't detect the conscious state and so some people may.

04:55:13
Could work like a humans and the issues that would present themselves. So if you're interested in checking that out on an I'm sorry.

04:56:44
Okay in a similar kind of vein so like within schizophrenia a lot of people have considered the possibility that like schizophrenia is like a disorder of consciousness because like it alters our perception our awareness and our thoughts, right so they think it's like schizophrenia is like a disorder of consciousness and I think that within schizophrenia itself it parallels the development of human language.

04:57:12
So when humans when the fox p two genes are to mutate and we start to be able to talk in a wide variety of languages and Developing them so forth schizophrenia start to develop at the same time to and there's been like a gene drive If you look at genome-wide associations studies there's been a gene drive of over two hundred genes associated with schizophrenia and there's high comorbidity called morbidity of schizophrenia with like Parkinson's with autism and so many other disorders and I think it's interesting because like within that field too of schizophrenia some people believe that it's like a byproduct of language and consciousness and that's why it's like if you look at people who have schizophrenia, they're synapses, do not prove normally and Some of them are much more hyper excitable even like the glial cells do not do not like reuptake certain neurotransmitters like dopamine dysfunction with this schizophrenia too so that I think it's very interesting if you wanted to like look more into that as like possible reason why how consciousness emerged it by looking at the opposite when people don't have it too.

04:58:18
So yeah, I'm done speaking my name is Julia. And that's great. And I think that you know, that's one of the things with G. Wah studies is that you can only really kind of look at correlation can't really get a lot of causation from it but yeah, it's a lot of interesting research coming out of the schizophrenia.

04:58:39
Research fields. And I think this is sort of popcorn style you guys so feel free to just. Discuss everyone can just kind of try again. Sanjara. Do you have a question?

04:58:57
Why? One of the reasons I invited Sandra up was because he is got the the background in in deep reinforcement learning and I thought he would be useful. He's the boss. Yeah. I thought I thought he he might like to answer some of your questions down here. So, that's why I brought him.

04:59:15
That's why invited him. Oh, hello guys. I was just waking up for having a breakfast so I tried to listen chime in. It's really interesting to talk. I if I have anything to add I'll definitely add but currently. I don't know how can I help and I'm not expert in neuroscience, but I'm really interested in so yeah keep going on.

04:59:38
I'm gonna be interesting to hear what you sort of do and what you focus in. Yeah. Sure so I'm really interested and inspired about automation and specifically collaborative. AI what is the collaborative AI is basically and designing algorithms that can adapt to the human's behavior and basically assist humans in decision-making.

05:00:12
For example, you can have Robinson to manufacturing industry like in a plant or fabric application plan sorry and basically the humans will make some kind of decisions and important those decisions. The robots will adjust adapt and act accordingly to maximize the common shared goal and that is the I would say the definition of cooperation or collaboration and that can be applied in a large scale systems, for example cars imagining you have millions of cars around the city.

05:00:48
I believe I hope to believe that in the future. I mean, the autonomous driving will be prevalent and ubiquitous. We're gonna have a systems like a decentralized or centralized systems for controlling the cars in a very co-operative manner basically using every possible car in this in such a way to minimize the total carbon footprint on the city or on the country level because you can minimize the amount of like a useless travel between points when there is another car that can do that stuff.

05:01:25
And basically all of those. Are non polynomial hard problems that cannot be solved by human currently but I'm currently doing a research that shows that reinforcement learning has a very big potential to beat any human created algorithm like five times ten times currently, yeah. So, I'm really excited about that field.

05:01:54
I am I guess I wanted to maybe I offer something to Ian's question from earlier. So so I do it so as shared I pointed out. I do have a different sort of idea in my mind as to what what consciousness could be. And I so I so I I would maybe just subscribe it as if you I don't know if you're sitting in a room or if you're sitting outside right now or standing and I would just say like if you if you consider all of the all the contents of your of of your thought work space right, um, whatever all the objects that are there in the in the room with you or you know are there tables and chairs are there.

05:02:37
Are there boxes and and phones and mirrors and and you know TVs and bottles and disturbing my environment but but the point is that amazing that's the coincidence. I maybe I was general enough that um, so I think that imagine that that all of these things are there their three their models their models that are I guess in some sense they're renderings for it and if your mind is a computational system.

05:03:08
But they're also um maybe at the root of it they're they're just tempo and spatial patterns and maybe all of it together is like the whole consciousness is like it's like a it's like a big collection of temple spatial patterns and so and some of them are molled by your visual cortex and some of them are modeled by your somatosensory cortex and your audio cortex and your prefrontal cortex.

05:03:31
I your front your frontal lobes, your your your post varietal. I mean like what I'm saying is like the it's like like imagine that all everything that you're that is your life experience from yourself to your feelings. They're all basically four-dimensional temporal and spatial patterns and and so they all have like like even like everything from a feeling to a touch to something that you hear maybe there's a there's a position in space for that like maybe there's a peak moment for every emotion for every taste there's a there's a peak to it.

05:04:08
There's a there's a low moment there's a moment when it when it's what it's high as a moment when it fades there's a moment when it's an in front of you in front of your experience within you behind. You in the past. There's all these like spatial characteristics to basically every every possible thought and sensation that a person can have is they're all temp everything is a temple spatial pattern to some at some level and so so what I'm thinking is that is that is that so the conscious experience is like basically a bunch of interlinked models or temple spatial patterns.

05:04:42
And and yeah you can you can you can have you can take some drug like anesthesia in a decouples the interlanking between all these patterns and in that that global experience goes away, right? But in order to get to an artificial consciousness, we'd have to be able to to I think basically, um, Have a lot of different interlink systems that are sort of like able to talk to each other and share the same language and in basically each of them is modeling a different part of your experience and in them able to model it together and in a way that makes sense and that that's because far beyond anything that we're doing and in neural networking right now, but but yeah, but it's but it's some it's it's interesting because it is I just think about what?

05:05:38
Sandra was saying that there there's in some sense we have to you'd have to have the ability for neural networks to cooperate that's a big part of it the really you can you get there's David Eagleman said that you can think of the the brain is like a cooperate as a cooperation of rivals.

05:05:54
I think that's what he said he might have said something different but yeah, like so imagine like a cooperation over like your brain is there there he's trying to do their own thing, but they're cooperating together and and then then you get you out of that somehow, so

05:06:18
Well I so just to address your question more specifically. I think that it could be a virtual but that the the the the substrate of the human brain certainly helps us facilitate the the consciousness but but I think that it doesn't have to be in the shape of the human brain no.

05:06:39
Point is. So definition of the consciousness that I heard maybe I don't know if it's correctly it's correct me from wrong so the summation of what you say is basically consciousness is your inner 40 representation of your environment in the temporal representation and spatial basically you're mapping your environment and everything that happened with you before as a as a images the patterns inside of you but.

05:07:21
I would add to that is not only that but also how do you actually react to those representations that makes you conscious because everyone everyone has their own mappings of the reality of the representations among around them to themselves, however they have a very different actions basically patterns of reaction to the events that is happening around them, so that is really reminiscent of reinforcement learning in a way that a different agents.

05:07:56
Basically different brains can occur and become in the in the same states basically spatial temporal representations, however, they'll have completely different actions and behaviors depending on those representations and I would say. Your pattern of behavior and paranormal reaction to those events and to those environment representations is a big part of consciousness without it.

05:08:24
I don't think we can we can disentangle them in a way that I mean because people don't have a same patterns and representations like everyone has something different in their way they perceive the reality and consequently the way they react to that reality. I agree with that, by the way, that's perfect well said.

05:08:50
Agree to. I'm interested in what you're talking about regarding this 4d idea. Of mapping the brain temperate temporally and and as spatially so I imagine almost having the neurons and somehow if possible because we don't know if it seems very impossible having the neurotransmitters and hormones and getting those mapped temporally as well as spatially in terms of like just like basically getting mathematical analyses of.

05:09:35
Their processes and that I wonder this is the this is a really big this isn't I'm not going to call it a reach but the way in the way that space-time is like four-dimensional of in terms of like Einstein's theories, there's this sort of. Intrinsic depth that could that is within the universe that is as great within the brain.

05:10:08
Yeah.

05:10:12
Well.

05:10:16
Okay I'll just go really crackle in terms of mapping there's a lot of like maps already within our brain like for retinal topic right so meadow topic for all the somatosensory visual and auditory and so forth there are like maps that like predicts such and there's also like a lot of studies within neuroscience to show that like they can they can predict like when an action potential fire within a neuron just from like long-term potential potentiation a long-term depression studies to like reinforce certain behaviors or like to predict like how a person will react on a subconscious like, There's like a Wisconsin card sorting task to predict like how like people can be able to like predict like certain like if the task let's say was like we want you to group these cards by color versus by shapes and they're like what is going on at this task like what is the experimenter doing like people are able to subconsciously pick up like like cues or like the pattern way before they can explicitly say what's going on and they sound like yeah, so they've done this with poker games and like a lot of different types of subconscious tests, like we we pick up.

05:11:26
Patterns faster than we can like consciously articulate so forth. So I do I'm not too sure of what your question is, but I think it's like already been done and like the 40 mapping part. Oh, no. I mean, they're like the full. Like, oh consciousness, um, once we're able to get to that point of mapping.

05:11:50
Consciousness if possible. It is still question, whether it is possible. I I do think. It is possible to figure out that the correlate like the neural correlates of consciousness, although I do wonder on whether is possible to map out. The. Sort of what's what's the explanatory gap explanation of consciousness like of what it looks like to exist or what it what it looks like to be a human kind of written out mathematically and in scientific notation.

05:12:41
And I guess with theoretical framework would conform. Assertion that there is a neurological or a neural correlate to consciousness versus it being versus consciousness being an emergent property of all of these constitutive processes. So I guess I'd be curious to know if there was a theoretical framework that made that assertion.

05:13:06
I would love to read it. I wanted to know um, like with what Nicola was saying with like the. Rendering of objects and stuff like that and everything. So like what it what do you think about like when people's consciousness when they die are like when they have auto body experiences like would you say in that are you are you saying that like you like, you know, like you would still be conscious after you die or like if you have an out of body experience you're really out of body yet, it's not just something your brain is making up.

05:13:36
Um, well my the idea that I favor or lean towards is that the uh is is that you're you're brain activity is necessary for you to imagine that you're floating above your head. I just sort of favor that theory. I don't want to get another people's faces and tell them that they're wrong, but that's sort of what I I think.

05:13:59
Oh, okay, got it. One thing I think you know on this topic of neural correlates of consciousness that's a challenge with the idea that there's some NCC type neurons to be found is it's a little bit like if you imagine the consciousness is something like the operating system running on a computer, you know, the brain is the hardware.

05:14:18
It's a the CPU with all the transverser circuits and all the logic circuits and you have an operating you have just like the CPU is operating you've got neural activity and then on top of that you've got some kind of structured dynamic on top of that neural activity, which I think like the operating system and imagine it has some some virtual reality program again.

05:14:38
Computer. Metaphor running on top of that operating system and that virtual reality that we're living inside is something like consciousness and you say oh I want to understand where consciousness is in the computer you know I want to understand where virtual reality is where it's virtual reality and the computer and so your scientists and you've got this computer that you can analyze and you say well what if what is the transistor correlate of virtual reality, you know, when the virtual reality system is running which transistors are active and how are they active and can we forget how virtuality works by like looking at the transistors it might be that we're kind of looking at the wrong level that what consciousness is has something to do with how the processing is structured.

05:15:13
Not which neurons are doing something.

05:15:20
I just want to add in regards to out of body experiences there's a particular region of the brain that seems to have a strong link to the creation of outer body experiences particularly it's called the temporal parietal junction or the TBJ and TPJ has it's kind of a place where our connections related to the mirror neurons system and the sense of.

05:15:52
And in theory of mind and the this region for some reason has some sort of correlation to auto body experiences and certain that when this region is stimulated with electromagnetic stimulation that it cannot actually spontaneously invoke a spontaneously isn't the right word here my bad they can it can the outer body experiences can be invoked with stimulation of the TPJ so it's something that I can if you kind of like some.

05:16:27
And with external stimulus. Oh yeah that's it God, oh I just wanted to add really quick that we're fancy point out was a good point it's like involved with the Olympic system and like when they use like TMS like DTMS to like simulate the TVJ and so forth like people do get an out-of-body experience.

05:16:52
I also want to point out like whoever someone earlier on talked about people who like go in and out conscience or work or in coma there's like it's actually interesting because there's like one professor I've had who's like, he, Just very kind of not wild but I guess like unorthodox or on mainstream ideas about this because that's like his field of research his name is Dr.

05:17:17
Stewart Younger guys want to read up what he writes because I don't want to like speak on his like work and so forth because it's a little bit. I guess it's like worth the read I guess so yeah. Maybe if I I could hear something that might be a little bit interesting I don't know how interesting I'll keep it short but um, so going back to the idea that the brain is rendering our reality is like a 3d model rendered inside a computer I so I had a friend who smoked DMT one time and he was inside a room that was like eight feet by eight feet and all of a sudden the the walls of the room expanded and he was inside this warehouse where to his left and to his right like there was not it's not eight fight, no not at eight by eight space anymore.

05:18:03
I was now like infinite space to the left and infamous space to the right. And. And the 3D model of the room basically changed. And so going back to like if your brain is making a 3D model then I guess if you if you have a altered brain state that's that's weird enough you could imagine yourself floating above yourself and so that's why I think it's it's it comes down to like a if we have three models in our brain that that might might be a way of explaining the near-death experiences that people have in a computational way.

05:18:44
A lot of people haven't heard about this but it's called depersonalization you realization disorder and I actually have it and I've had it for four years and it's this sort of experience deep do you still have it where it feels like yeah yeah, it feels like you are asleep while you're awake if that makes sense so it feels like you're stuck in a dream or asleep and you're waking day state and when I first got it, I actually, Couldn't differentiate between like being asleep and awake because everything felt endless in the same for like days and days and days in the beginning.

05:19:30
I also had life site which is considered for vision for vision blind site is like when everything looks it looks like you can't see anything so everything's black but your eyes are still somehow kind of able to see and navigate you which is really confusing because I was able to like walk where I wanted to but I couldn't see.

05:19:53
So that's that's actually used as an example often what hot what like almost like unconscious visual processing would look like it's like what's your wait, oh what's my current oh so I have my vision. I have at least like I don't have one mindset but. I still have yet like very strange experiences with my relationship with space and like visually mostly like visually but also bought a bodily processing myself being in space so it's like my like if I'm walking outside on a warm day, it feels like I'm floating or if I'm drunk driving like it's a it's just feels like my I'm not in my body existing.

05:20:54
No it's yeah. Oh.

05:21:06
That's a population might have the disorder. I need to look more into the. Described as sort of feeling like you're not really there yeah yeah yeah, so it's I think that it could be used though as something to look at to understand consciousness further and study. Perceptions study within also like having utilizing is in the perceptual differences.

05:21:41
It's interesting I hadn't happened a couple times to me where I just had a brief experience where I felt like I wasn't actually situated in my body and one of them. I was actually at a job and interviewing candidate and so I had this person across the desk for me that I'm holding a conversation with and suddenly it felt like I was like pulling back and I was looking at the room from like the upper left corner of the room and looking down on the situation and kind of seeing myself in the room with this other person immutable.

05:22:12
I'm still connecting the interview and I'm like trying to focus like okay focus focus. But it was very strange especial experience while this, you know, engagement was going on. I was happy when the interview was finally over and I could kind of collect myself and it kind of snapped the way after an hour or so are you sure they didn't drug you poem yeah so no yeah, it's not a drug.

05:22:35
I kind of know about that it kind of it kind of sounds like something that's called yeah astro vision and sometimes it happens to people like when I was younger or whatever like I'll be sleeping. And I would wake I would wake up like in the middle of the night or something like that or sometimes early in the morning but I'm not just like I'm up but I'm not really up still.

05:22:54
I'm more so sleep but I can see from like a bird's eye view myself when I bet or sometimes I just had this awareness and it's like my body my body is filled by I can't move my body but I'm conscious still and I'm not looking through my eyes a different type of vision, yes he got.

05:23:12
It's got hurt yet sorry go ahead oh I was just gonna say that on Paul it seems like you you're you're perception switched and you tapped into your Astro vision stuff like drugs can help that happen, but it's a natural thing and it doesn't have to take a drug the son stimulates your mind that's something you know, it's like you tapped into something yeah.

05:23:33
I think those kind of experiences are okay. Julia, oh I just said I wanted to go after Roberta because I think a Roberto wasn't like I was just there. I've heard it defined as a just a deformation of of your body. Though the the map that your brain is making of the boundaries of your body getting to formed.

05:23:56
Temporarily. Yeah somebody.

05:24:22
So, This is.

05:24:29
Like two questions really quick. We're both of them on like ketamine hallucinogens were marijuana when this happened and second were they under stress when this depersonalization occurred. For me those just a normal situation red. Um, I I would so for me it actually it was a weed edible that triggered me into getting it and I'm kind of stayed around after that left.

05:25:03
Yeah.

05:25:09

05:25:35
Do you realization from there like PTSD experiences because they almost like turn it's like going in like, you know how like there's self-defense mechanism. Yeah, I know so yeah and then like so I think that the fact that this is possible it's um, it's it's it's pretty consistent with the current neuroscience there is a perception which is that it's not that sensory information is sort of flowing upstream and just being summarized.

05:26:05
By the brain the that's not how perception works that rather the brain is generating a coccurrent model of the world a point of view is generating a point of view and the reason you feel like you're in your body is because all your information is coming in from that same point of view, you know visions coming in, you know through your eyes or to your head, so you feel like you're often located in your head, but it's just sensory information coming into the brain the brain is trying to make sense of it and creating a model that will make sense of that and that model has a point of view which is you with the center looking out but that model it doesn't have to be that particular model the brain could construct a different model and if you have enough awareness.

05:26:40
To space so that you know when you move around a room for example you still understand the structure the room you can understand the room for the point different point of view that model the brain could be just generated different model that has the point of view situated somewhere else and the sensory information is still coming in and that model is being updated based on that sensory information.

05:26:57
So the experience of the room over the situation is still, you know, you're still having a conscious experience and situation you're just experiencing it from a point of view there's different than the usual one. Attached from your embodied position. Like I think I think consciousness is independent of the brain like like you are conscious before you were born you're still conscious now and then when the body goes on your consciousness still lives.

05:27:25
So like when you went when you're saying what you're saying Paul, um for me I could see them away with like that's the case but because consciousness is not about the brain it's not like once the brain, um goes on to consciousness and to me, it's almost like if this is the best example.

05:27:42
Is like Wi-Fi I was gonna always be there and then I'll bring in is like the computers or something like that that's tapping into the Wi-Fi but you can give it like the locked up like if the computer alright when your phone battery dies and your phone has happened to the Wi-Fi the Wi-Fi is still there, but you can't experience anymore because I mean, that'll be only different view of consciousness that consciousness is some fundamental force out there and the brain is like an intended helping input that's probably a pretty different view from at least once in neuroscience, which is that content this is a product of neural activity the brain which seems pretty consistent with.

05:28:17
When you disrupt the neural activity the brain it changes consciousness you know you you apply a general anesthesia or you simulate different parts of the brain that actually changes the conscious experience so that's would be consistent with the idea that consciousness is a result of brain activity, but some people do have this view that you know, conscious is something else and right activity is somehow adjacent to it and kind of tapping into it but that's that's a pretty different metaphysical view, oh I just wanted to respond really quick to read um, because I think so within day personalization disorder and the PTSD part and Then with within my own like research within schizophrenia and so forth there's a marijuana actually activates certain schizophrenic gene and actually it also like seems to bring about the deep personalization symptoms that you've talked about red and also ketamine does the same thing for both and also within the PTSD part it's actually interesting because I think that like there's a lot of like studies who that have shown this that like people when they're under high dress right they undergo this like the floating out of body experience and it's like a weird self protective.

05:29:27
Mechanism like certain triggers that will activate this because their body does not know how to write it's like flight right and freeze and there's like in a freeze responsive and go out of body experience comes out of it and so I personally there's this I just finished reading this really good book it's called the body keeps the score and it's by a doctor yeah yeah and then there's like this one section this is like a lot of psychiatric disorders come about because it's a form of self-protective mechanism, so PTSD is like one of them because you have the triggers get.

05:30:02
Out of that situation and then I think when you take these certain drugs like it activates like the endocannabinoid precipitous schizophrenia and deeper's lysation disorder and it activates like these triggers that's like okay like you're in a stressed out situation because your body doesn't know how to handle these new you knew neurotransmitters that like aren't usually there and so forth so yeah, it's just like putting out there like they might you might have this experience a lot over and over again and like stress will definitely bring it up yeah well, okay, so there's this article in America.

05:30:37
's psychiatry it just 2018 cannabis induced to personalization duralization disorder, it's like it's whoa just yeah, so just putting out that. Yeah you know also happen without drugs yeah PTSD would be I think it's sort of a slightly different situation, but similar maybe affect you could imagine that you know, the brain constructs a sense of self, you know that you go and that you go is you know has this function of trying to further it survival and kind of organize its understanding of the world and behavior to optimize versus rival and protect itself and so the ego the sort of self that's constructed in the brain is serving that function and then under situation of severe trauma, you know, the sensory information is just you know, very.

05:31:25
Traumatizing to that sense of self and threatening to it and one strategy for and and creates a lot of you know, moral suffering or sort of suffering I guess would be the term and that one way of breaking that you know, getting protection from the suffering is to reorganize let's say the neural activity flow of information so that sensory information is flowing into some different thing and it's not being incorporated into that sense of self that is being threatened and it's a way of you know, perhaps escaping the feeling of pain and suffering by essentially partitioning.

05:32:00
Consciousness so that you're cutting the sense of self off from where all the sensation is happening. Can I jump in? Pressure so I'm the because I hear a lot of people refer to ways of using drugs to stimulate the the switch but you're talking a lot about self and used and if you do more if you go deeper into research on self-organization, and you can actually also start triggering that effects of having this HTL experiences.

05:32:35
And the to start making sense of something that didn't make sense in my worldview. I start using a metaphor from thermo dynamics to to give it language so you know the the idea of artificial vacuum and it's it's something that happens very rarely in on earth, but we actually have made ways to to really create it like our like our engines.

05:33:07
And and I kind of believe that using drugs just like creating an engine where you actually really use the artificial vacuum so but there may be situations where you can have this is astral experience in a very natural way as well, so the way I like to look at the brains as unconsciousness is that it is a little bit like an artificial vacuum it's it's pretty rare on earth, but if you probably get out of a certain field like in our case the for the artificial vacuum, it's the gravity.

05:33:42
Of the earth that makes it quite impossible to have that situation but if you go out of that field you actually get into a space where it's the the default so I think there's something similar happening with our ego experience of consciousness and the astral experience of consciousness but I'm trying to figure it out purely from cybernetics and and self-organizing systems and thermodynamics so that's stuff.
05:34:05

05:34:27
And don't speak English. I actually another question for read if you're open to talking more about your experience. I'm sure yeah. So so you have this feeling that you're you're sort of not really there or that you know, what's happening is something it doesn't feel like it's happening to someone else or.

05:34:50
Just kind of put yeah, it just feels like it's it feels like it's happening to everything if that makes sense. So almost like self-removable like I don't think logically Like that, I'm not conscious if that makes sense. Over that a lot logically. I'm aware that I'm awake and right.

5:35:16
I like to drive a car do you feel like you're watching yourself driving the car if you like your sort of? Air present. Um, it feels like. I'm asleep like that's the best way to describe it is literally the like the phenomenological feeling or what it is like to be asleep which is very difficult to as it's really tricky to explain.

05:35:42
I know it's almost mixed with this go ahead sorry. Oh, it's as good as it feels like when you wake up in the morning. Um, It feels like I'm like now I'm at a point that I'm almost like at this weird sort of forty to fifty percent kind of like.

05:36:04
Having slightly back gotten back to feeling just a little bit more normal because I've had it for like four years now, um, so I feel like there's almost I feel almost like just like half. Usually it happens in terms of relation to being asleep itself awake so it feels like I'm like about to fall asleep.

05:36:32
I guess when I wake up and I kind of have that persist and kind of go up and down and change throughout the day and coordinating to what I'm doing or stresses it physically like drowsy or does it feel dream like? Um, so this is the funny thing is me and my friend that have it we've had discussions about this.

05:36:58
You don't know what fatigue is anymore when you get it because it it's so like because you have realization all the time you can't really. Eat it from. Being able to feel fatigued. How so it's like, Feeling fatigue is feeling more more unreal and like even yeah just less conscious how does it how does your dreams feel?

05:37:32
Um, my dream my dreams just feel the same as they usually do but so so yeah is it do your dreams feel more normal than when you're up are not like that. Um, My dreams actually do feel more normal than when I'm away yeah okay um yeah one time um I don't know if it's the exact same thing but like if like when I was younger I like if I play basketball or like if I have a long long busy day at work and I'm working a lot and it's like I got like this eight hour shift or maybe this this like ten hours ship is that and I gotta like stay up and do stuff and I don't really have like maybe 15 minutes very God got like 30 minutes left or whatever vegan our left but it's like I'm more kind of like around a lot to do so I kind of can't stop, um, I'll be Working and then I'll get tired and a lot of this has to do like I don't it's like I don't get I don't get the rest I need I don't get I don't get to eat that I need but then all of a sudden I'll become like what you said and it's like I just can't get tired anymore.

05:38:34
I can do I can go out the whole day and like I won't be 15th anymore it seemed like I said similar experience, but that's the circumstances that I gotta go through for me to experience that.

05:38:47
I kind of.

05:38:51
Sort of when you reach that transient state when you've been staying up in the night like well let's say like with a friend or you kind of have can just keep going your mom feels like you're drunk that that kind of sounds yes, you know like the experience you're describing I wanted that I wanted to ask a question to read so do you have you also try it maybe also experienced like in like an ego death experience and how would you compare that to the deep personalization experience this is those similar things.

05:39:25
I'm so I would actually say the funny part is before I got realization and I've actually like always been into like consciousness studies and neuroscience and like that sort of research so when it happens to me, I almost just immediately was like, oh my goodness, this is proof of this like almost a strange real area like a certain relationship.

05:39:55
I do yeah. I have this weird theory idea like in my head for the relationship between. The body and and space but I'm a very the reason I wouldn't say a related to ego death is because I almost feel like ego death. This is more of this idea that doesn't actually.

05:40:21
Apparently at least it doesn't like alter the brain in the way that like depersonalization do realization disorder has been kind of like scientifically measured to do to like certain areas in the amygdala and like to area I think goes like v3 or v4 and literally changing. How good like for persistent like how a person's brain is, essentially processing the stimuli that's coming in so I didn't I personally I wouldn't call it an ego death.

05:41:02
I other people may actually see it as me death like I won't I guess it doesn't sound at all like an ego death at all. Yeah, I guess yeah like if it's a very but yeah, like it's almost kind of there's this a way to describe it even more as it feels like you're almost stuck in a haunted house because there's this almost like height and fear of like everything around you because it seems unfamiliar because you have the memory of the almost even if you're like not aware of it, but you have the memory of the way that you use to perceive stimuli your whole life.

05:41:45
And then it's like imagine having those perceptions all shift over just just enough to seem strange and and unfamiliar all the time it's a sort of very little like like Papa you were talking about earlier almost like shift in where the like but what would you call it the center of cognitive?

05:42:12
It yeah like I'm like, I'm might be more situated. I make the leases nowhere but like more like almond my attention and like. My general like I think attention has like great impact on this way of consciousness as well and if all my attention is being exerted to like taking in stimulus I guess actually that wouldn't be attention similar just going right to the amygdala constantly for long periods would change my experience of consciousness if you said like edibles, like if edibles kind of made this happen shouldn't it be a way to like, you know, um reverse it.

05:43:04
And like you know I mean like you take maybe take something I'll do something I can like reverse that because you know what, I mean, like if there's those things leave your body after you know three or four hours, I think you know one way of thinking about it is those those, you know different psychoactives can modify how the neural activities organize and put your brain into different state and then you know, when it wears off maybe your brain goes back to the state, but sometimes maybe it stays in that state and you know, sort of found a new kind of organizing organizing dynamic.

05:43:37
And then it's how do you like? Ben shift it back to the way it was. Yes, like if somebody messed with the computer and put it in like Goss Motors or something some other thing like that and you want to try to just bring our like if somebody did a software update and you might like bring it back.

05:43:51
I wouldn't say that I would say that the the substances can keep your pain in your neutral and with this learned it, it'll go to it if it has some beneficial effect for some reason dealing with stress or something like that just learned it, it'll use it.

05:44:09
On the realm of strange experiences a friend of mine you know one day instead of you know woke up at night and and saw this man standing in a room and he just said there he didn't do anything he was just standing there and but he was kind of there any kind of wasn't there it kind of goes like and he was around like, you know day after day and she went and saw like a therapist about it and process it and this was sort of a kind of progressive therapist like well don't worry about it'll just kind of fade over time and I don't think he's around so much anymore, but she just was like, very disturbing when the study happened and then eventually she got used to it and then it took.

05:44:44
Kind of faded away, I guess. Yeah, so you know sad as well yeah I have you saying like are you saying like we're in and made the guys stay and like if you don't really it'll go it'll go away, uh, yeah, I think if you're having anxiety about it turns it into something dramatic which probably gives it some extra driving force and if you sort of you know to worry about it, then it just becomes less relevant yeah, so I would agree like there's almost these uh, people are more prone to like OCD.

05:45:18
Would be more susceptible to um, even what what's the pre schizophrenia um, there's this there's this sort of like people can have like a temporary delusional disorder, um psychos are like yeah yeah, yeah like uh, they can experience psychosis, um and experience it only once and then hobbit go away while there's a lot of people that after their first step.

05:45:53
Is so go like continue to have that and that it seems like Paul your friend yeah like had psychosis their potential yeah like a potentially a psychosis or yeah assistant hallucination but she did like yeah and also speaking right disorders like unconsciousness. I was took care of a patient that.

05:46:22
Had cycle gym and seizures psychogenic electrophoria epileptic form seizures and is really interesting because she was in our unit where we the epilepsy unit, so she had continuous monitoring and she had come in because she was driving and had one of these episodes and you know end up getting into a car accident it was fine.

05:46:46
In suffering injuries, but that's what raised the level of alert burdeness and she came in. To the child neurology unit. Is really interesting because in the in the epilepsy unit, you know, it's continuous monitoring as well as video recording and so essentially you have the patient come in and you wait for them to have a seizure and so we finally after three days captured this activity.

05:47:18
And she was arriving and shaking. I mean, it was a full-on tonic chronic seizure, however when we look at the EEG trace that was taken at the same time completely it was normal and so it was. Exactly and it's because it's a very unique and interesting, you know, I like all of these cycles synthetic conditions because they break all of the rules all of the connections that we try to make when we're building up our problems consciousness, they sort of shatter all of that because in this case there's the woman who she had all the symptoms.

05:47:58
I mean all the signs and symptoms a temporary laughter memory, we see these involuntary as I said rapid, you know, really ballistic movements and it happens for. About two to two to five minutes and then afterwards that's it and the thing is the morbidity and mortality is quite simpler to those who have the leptoform teachers and so it is something that's very interesting and and one of the hypotheses is that perhaps this is a metabolic condition that can excite certain apps certain neurons, however, it doesn't lead to brainwide dysfunction such that you can't.

05:48:44
Have been spinal cord in this like brainstem spinal cord. Or do you think it was voluntary? So that was the thing is that she actually had a conversion disorder and so all of it was it's still it's understudy we don't know I you know, that's a short answer of it but it for me it makes me very interested in the ways that links that our brains and our bodies go through to suppress dramatic experiences and I think you know everything from severing our normal perceptual understandings of the world to you know, something like this and, Yeah, I just want to share that because we don't know I mean the long story short she was discharged and we had to have that really difficult conversation with the family that yes despite being on our unit for a week we were able to capture you know the activity but we don't have a way to to get rid of it and then some patients we will give time epilepsy medication, but it doesn't really work as as well, so and it's just yeah.

05:50:01
Age I had a better person at. Oh go ahead I had a this a small thought about that I shared which was that um, so there's no what there's no electrical activity in this situation, so it's not it's not a you know with the EEG so it's not an electric storm but but it's interesting the brain has um, because you know, you can you can have there's there's electrical synapses there's chemical synapses there's also like the the glia and the the there's all these different networks in the brain and and so the idea of like a chemical or non-electrical epileptic seed.

05:50:42
Ger is just a is also an interesting idea, but but yeah, I just I'll stop there. Well but yeah the muscle force neurons are controlled by I mean that's all driven by neurons so it'd have to I mean if there was a if it was a seizure driven I think would have to go through the neural.

05:51:01
I mean, anything that's driving the limbs to move is going to have to go through the motor area and activating the motor area and I guess the question is is it being driven by a kind of out of control neural oscillation in the brain or is it being driven by a motor program that is somehow connected to the way this person is channeling their trauma did you say there was like a it was a post-traumatic situation.

05:51:24
Shared yes correct and and again, you know, this is continuous monitoring and it's the it's a 256 net normally so it's 256 different content points all over this person's head, so most of that would have been up and so yeah, it's just it's very interesting. So are these um, non these are non-psychogenics seizures.


05:51:53
No they're they're they're psychogenic psychogenic but not elective form meaning that you know, we don't see the characteristic oscillatory patterns that will be consistent with like a grand mower or retirement conic seat so you can imagine for example that I guess if you know imagine an actor was simulating what it might look like if someone is having a seizure that person would be, you know, shaking and having a violent motor reaction, but it wouldn't show up as anything unusual in the brainwaves.

05:52:24
Now that's you know an actor would be someone kind of deliberately doing that but this could be someone you know, involuntarily doing it but it's still happening through the normal odor program activities, oh so then I think they're like so didn't like the subconscious is doing it in a way that it's not going through the channels that it would show up with the subconscious is still like making it happen.

05:52:46
Absolutely another question. I had was so so let's say that Paul is Paul is correcting and this came from your spine your spine initiated this movement, what if a regular? I don't think that's what it was from what he told me. I'm I don't I'm really that out but go ahead, um, well, I am so I I don't know exactly what it was but I mean if um, If it was if it was some some if it was like what if it would if the if there's actually some distance between the the epileptic seizure and and and what if the motor control that's happening during a seizure is was happening in the spine, for example, like like what if there was an easier way to treat Caesars by not treating that electrical storm, but but but maybe just addressing something to do with some to do with that the the patterns that you're spying gives your body in order to to move it's just a weird idea, but Yeah, I mean, I guess the way of thinking about what you're described is it's whole body shaking behavior that's the observed behavior and the question is what's the cause and one cause could be out of control oscillations irritating in some part of the brain that's epilepsy but another cause could just be the person was shaking violently and had you know, some subconscious reason for doing that.

05:54:08
Was that some particular pattern or film type to the epileptic seizure of motor actions, like were they repetitive like steroids of any kind was there like a gurning or just shaking nothing else? We also appreciate or we observed tongue tongue rattling and rising of the mouth and lips smacking lips on the thing okay and then in terms of the how would I characterize the movement yeah, it didn't seem to have like a pattern or anything organized about it whatsoever that's interesting because lip smacking is quite characteristic of epileptic seizures and so if something was purpose idea of it being sort of like a, Subconscious your acted imitation of a seizure unless someone had seen a seizure and was like, you know subconsciously I'm going to do this thing somehow psycho semantically but it would be odd if it came from nowhere and had had lip smacking because yeah that's quite specific to epilepsy itself it makes it seem like it's something even lower level than a than a unusual motor program it makes it seem neurological but not epilepsy really yeah.

05:55:36
Um when I when I said I'm not trying to say that I'm right that just like look what I thought with the subconscious thing but I do mean it as then like you don't your subconscious kind of knows what a seizure is and it doesn't have to see somebody else make a seizure to have a seizure like it with this kind of hypnosis experiment it's on YouTube somewhere I believe but the hypnotized this girl and then they tell her that the scissor is like burning hot and stuff like that and then when they put the date when they put the scissors with the decision does not hate though, but they typnotized her into thinking when they put the scissor on her skin it.

05:56:10
It treated it like if it was hot and and it started doing the stuff like if you're like if you would put that high and it burned and burnt the part that skin away and stuff like that even though it wasn't hot so it um, Like but that that's that happens if you if you know, like kind of like you're like that's tricky to explain it but it's like it's like.

05:56:31
Sure if you have an idea of what it's supposed to look like you could model it without realizing you're doing that. Um, yes our our lake um, the reason why okay so kind of like the reason why your body would do that when you get burnt is to try to protect it or whatever like that so when you like if you hypnotized somebody and tells me about the case, they would do it are like if it's a subconscious or some reason for like okay, this is what I got to do to keep safe right now it would it would imitate the the the seizure thing, um, without the person.

05:57:05
I don't know like it's it's kind of, I can't really explain it that good but but like that to where like, uh, the person that doesn't have to see it. Like it's a lot of information in the subconscious lip smacking is quite the red behavior to ever see like you don't see the kind of lip smacking that you see and epilepsy almost ever like it yeah repetitive lips lip smacking which can go on for like a minute or two or 30 seconds as you just don't see people doing that and any other sort of frame of life so okay, so it's a very sure this is what I mean, all right, so say like if um, You have like a second somebody has a panic attack right so to having a panic attack, um, so you can see other people having a panic attack but you don't you don't have to see other people having a panic attack to happen yourself are if you're subconscious are like without you ever seeing somebody have this panic attack if your subconscious went into make you have a panic attack you could have one because it's certain things it's not necessary, it's like that's inside you it's nice it's not something that you have to see to recreate.

05:58:12
Hmm the the lips smacking comes basically as a result of Paul disagree with me here if this is not what you meant but yeah as a result as Paul said of basically we think a solutary activity which basically eventually results in yeah patterns in the most cortex which drive that kind of behavior so it's not the sort of thing that you would naturally arrive at right it's basically involuntary and yeah, you wouldn't know Tim.

05:58:47
And teach it. I mean, apparently attack everyone knows what's like to be scared or breathless for sure but that's a very very particular motor pattern that I I would be yeah baffled if someone came up with that sort of yep from their if you like just you know, as I imagine this is what a seizure is like let's backing is very very particular yeah.

05:59:12
I mean, here's another one there was an entire yeah, so there's another one called, Psychogenic polydipsia, now this was a woman she was in her her early fortons. And she came on onto the floor she was admitted because of she perceived herself to be dehydrated and so we'd rent all of these tests a red her blood osmolarity all of that she was seem to be okay, but she complained that always I'm just so thirsty and so what happened was that we did we checked her electrolytes and she had a very very low potassium you're right, okay what's going on here?

05:59:59
And so we put her on a unit and and we just had the nurses monitor just monitor her number one, but also to look at her water intake and she drank so much water that she was actually causing electrolyte imbalances within her, you know herself and she almost killed herself actually because she would consume so much water, however when we look at the mechanisms that the underlife thirst.

06:00:29
You know, it's it's highly an exquisitely attuned to the blood osmolarity and so and then we you know, check the kidneys make sure her renal system everything was attacked and so she had cyclogenic meaning something that was psychologically derived with no genetic component or no biological component, but she had this excessive thirst so then we put her on water restriction because you know, we we wanted to protect her.

06:01:00
And she took such extreme measures to get water to the point where she used we allowed the patients, you know to sometimes they can use like a sponge bath or just you know have things in their room she was scooping the water out of the toilet to drink and it was just very very interesting and that was again just another curious case of here's something where the biology just does not explain this behavior in this woman's conscious state of herself as as a.

06:01:35
Thirst if she just said she was chronically thirsty that's like you count on I'm not sure where a thirst of the immediately from I don't know if that's hypothalamus or something kind of brains down but you cannot know all those assistants to do the right thing by you and until you the right signals I met someone who's daughter didn't experience hunger from permanent early age and she just she couldn't make herself eat they eventually had to implant a tube and her stomach so that she could be fed on a daily basis through a bag outside her body because she just it was food was so discussing she couldn't get herself to do it even though she knew that her body needed it and she was underway.

06:02:10
And you know, she was you know, she. Even though the alternative was this sort of trauma of having this tube and planted nurse stomach, um there if you just couldn't get herself to be when she needed to. By the way Paul it is the hypothalamus. It is something. A shirt.

06:02:30
I want to a story another side question to the yeah to the pathology but did she ever expel or bring up water did she? I mean if she was drinking that much did she ever so there are cleansing rituals that people do right and they just like just take vast amounts of water and then kind of just spontaneously spew it out was that part of behavior or was that not apparently not occur elections were so far yeah, very good question.

06:03:04
Her but yeah, I have to agree with Paul she she was not oh okay how's question just feel about in your divergence and trying to clear it back to consciousness great idea how hard is how do we treat nowadays the existence of multiple personal multiple consciousnesses inside the same brain, how do we treat that nowadays?

06:03:30
I mean how do we how is it regarded I guess it's not called that anymore it's called desorder the idea yes, so how what is the approach towards dealing with the ID nowadays? I think integration therapy is often what's done. I think the I mean, I don't know that much about it but I think the view is that people often people with PTSD are with the exhibit that and so it's as though the different aspects of the memories have been partitioned from each other and so when the consciousness is sort of engaged with whom Mary are.
06:04:05
In sort of doesn't know about the other memory areas so I think therapist work with them to win their own one memory. I just sort of do things sort of make notes and like look for clues where that which each each sets that each part of themselves can start to learn about the other part and kind of notice things about the other part and start to develop awareness of the other parts there and then eventually connect the two together or that's my understanding.


06:04:29
I don't know anything. So the the other if the others the altars are not treated anymore as house stations as they would be for somebody with psychosis or schizophrenia, but they are treated as individuals who need to get to deal with each other.

06:04:50
Yeah, that's right. I think the standard of care right now is to CBT cognitive behavior of therapy which in the context of the ideas really just point it at allowing the person to have a better experience within themselves, so you know to manage. The multiple identities and in the consequences of living in that state as far as they refers to themselves as a system of people.

06:05:20
But yeah yes some of these examples are making me think of a camp grass collusion that's another really interesting kind of disorder of sense of sense of identity that's when people experience familiar object are objects that should be familiar as I'm familiar. Such as seeing you know I think one one patient I read about her her sister visitor and she's like who is that woman what is she doing here and she looks like just like my sister she's like some actor pretending to be my sister and it's like no no it's me and it's like, why do you pretending who are you get out of here is that like old time is a different and the interesting thing about that is that basically if cold on the telephone by the same person they immediately go oh my goodness that I met you there you are.

06:06:10
I just so good. To hear from you and the same person can walk in the room whilst on the phone and the patient will suddenly again go oh my goodness, you're an impostor and so when they have the thin slice of audio that yeah the the delusion doesn't occur.

06:06:28
Yeah, apparently income think of Rama Chandrin if yes from a Chandra and had a case study where this person could not recognize his own mother and and and inspection of their brain through PET or MRI scans, I don't remember which one show that they had lesions in the amygdala believe it or not and this is one of those case studies that highlights that you make the law is you know, conventionally or at least then like pop science considered to be you know, just like, A center of like anxiety and fear but there's also on the royalty amygdala in in just like general emotional valence so the hypothesis that Dr.

06:07:16
Ramachandran posits is that whenever the person you know looks at their mother without the concomitant emotional valence that gives the impression that that the mother is an impostor and not the mother and I would just like to take the opportunity to tie this back to the somatic marker hypothesis that, I I like to make a habit of bringing up because it shows that the this kind of like visceral somatic sensation is very much something that is crucial to some very important cognitive and emotional processes.

06:07:57
Okay. All right concur what Ramsey said on the basic science and one of my colleagues at NYU actually studies that is very interesting. I think romantron's explanation runs equipment if I'm wrong here and I don't know whether this was just a theory that wasn't born out by subsequent investigation, but that there was a breakdown in effective connectivity between the amygdala and the fusiform face area, so yeah is that right the face didn't trigger the emotional is that right yeah yeah, yeah amazing.

06:08:35
I'm not I don't. I don't recall you might be right maybe that's a detail that um, I've forgotten but that that that I can't comment on whether that's right or not. I did hear one well I'm a case of cap press where the woman gets recognized herself in the mirror So it seems like that some of these are kind of visually because you mentioned the person was fine on the phone with the person but not when they were present visually in front of them.

06:08:59
So this person, you know, she lived alone but there was this woman that would follow around. She had a like a mirror on the hallway and there's a woman that would fall around and and she would you know, try to try to talk to the woman but the woman you know, didn't talk back but she tried to sign language.

06:09:16
She happened to know sign language from a long time ago, and She said that the woman wasn't very good at sign language and that she was saying and I didn't really have much interesting to say really kind of seemed to say the same things that she was saying, but she didn't quite connect the dots that it was her.

06:09:34
Um, this was really interesting because I believe one of the great neurofilosophers Nedblock has he has the disorder that when he looks at people's faces, he can't recognize them. Andosia. Yeah, yeah. I often wonder.

06:10:12
It's relationship to. I'm almost like wondering personally is it inspired him to look into consciousness studies more could be I did. I hear one yeah guy give a talk who had frozen pegaussia and he said he actually didn't realize he had it until his genius teenage years and the way he figured it out is he and his brother were watching a soap opera and you know, he couldn't quite follow the the the story and he you know was talking with his brother about and eventually figured out that he only thought there were three characters but his brother saw six characters.

06:10:51
And so he apparently was confusing and over the characters with each other and he said his brother how can you tell him apart? They keep showing their faces. And that's when he realized that everyone else could tell people apart by their face, he had to rely on the clothes they were wearing and their facial hair and other you know, kind of more distinctive characteristics about their their whole person because he couldn't really differentiate their faces very well.

06:11:15
Yeah, um this kind of like makes me the you beg the question of you know, I think people with a prosopagnosia like there's not. Nothing like innately wrong with their like their rudimentary visual processing, you know, they can kind of like they they can still like see the features, you know, they can see eyes nose and a mouth but the way that they kind of like integrate the features into a gestalt that has the sort of like special stylians is what is not functioning so they they they see the features of the face but it is just a non-celient stimuli.

06:12:01
Chicken to you know how if you go outside you know like the branches and branches of a tree are kind of like not very silly and stimuli well if you think about it faces actually do look really similar. I mean, if you look at the you know, the yearbook and you turn it upside down, you might actually have a hard time identifying people and you you would confuse people so I think it's actually pretty surprising that we're able to differentiate faces as much as they are.

06:12:26
I think there's a typical distribution between yeah the general integration of a face as a combination of its parts which tends. As I recall to be right hemispheric biased and the left side which is well basically yeah pick out the individual details, so it could be theorizing a way a specific breakdown in some kind of function precision or connectivity that's right biased, possibly.

06:12:59
It's also it also happens with different ethnicities that takes us time to realize that people whose features do not fall into what we're used to seeing in a face it takes this time to took differentiators so it's a memory thing. I think well or it's a visual processing maybe plus memory thing there is a brain area that's associated with the the stability to distinguish faces there was a visual neuroscience study done on monkeys where they would train the money monkey to differentiate different shapes of bent paper clips.

06:13:34
And you know they're sort of you know the Mike who would tell two apart and then he had three four or five and I guess eventually the monkey could differentiate 50 different variations of that paper clips, which sounds really tedious but apparently the fusiform face area was involved in doing that differentiation, so the conclusion was that that area is specialized for very subtle distinctions in form and it just happens to be pretty useful for face identity, yeah.

06:14:01
Paul you kind of said what I was just about to bring up which is the the cheese before I'm face area, you know isn't. Necessarily just specialized for faces in particular but you kind of just said it it's the the the area is specialized to kind of like he's the part like really subtle variations informed of which you know, like as you mentioned faces are you know pretty pretty darn similar and this the the fact that we have such a powerful ability to discern, you know, just even the slightest subtleties in faces, you know, like people are able to tell apart identical twins, you know, just by like, Some of the most subtle variations and I think that as that research demonstrated that this area is kind of where this the this processing of like extremely subtle variations happens and they're so freaking behind that because there's actually a group and my center.

06:15:08
It looks at the and they've actually using a computer brain interface and everything they're able to actually classify the affect the emotional effect versus the facial expression and the musculature around the face and with a high degree reliability being able to discern the difference between a person who is depressed depressed or medicaid should depressed untreated and then someone who's treatment-resistant depressed.

06:15:43
So there is a lot of salient to I think there's a lot of real estate, you know in our cortex dedicated to being able to discern differences my new differences and facial expressions in my cats, so yeah pretty close to the human area but from a study that I saw which was looking at individual populations within the area there was specially specialization within the, An area which was specific to faces my cat faces specifically and so per personal pregnosia if it was about just precise delineation and features you would expect it to go for everything right if it was sort of generalized but I think yeah and and this is again not rich but just yeah from grief investigation.

06:16:46
I did trying to understand whether it was actually a localized functional deficit, but it seems that there may be. A specialism within the area which is yes as you say generalized for details and integration sorry for button just to say goodbye signing out thank you for this great great conversation, enjoy your night have a good night.

06:17:06
I'll add something add something to you like is that is is that like similar like if um, like if I'm at a bar or somewhere and I see somebody or whatever at the ball whatever and they're like, I'm at the store and then LA like they're rubbing me it is like the thing I kind of like like remind me and there's like, oh okay are like if you can't remember somebody's somebody's name because I talked about it earlier on this kind.

06:17:28
Of condition called where it's like if you try to bring up mental images you only you only see darkness, so sometimes it's hard for me to not it's not always hard for me like like to like if I see a bartender and I go to the next song, I'm gonna know that that's the bartender more times but sometimes I do meet people and um, I might I might not remember them or maybe I can remember that I seen this person before but it's harder to remember to remember their name but it was one time, um at the bar that I did work at um, the bartender's daughter worked there too.

06:18:00
I would never like that and I worked I worked there for a while or whatever and then like she was gone for like, uh, maybe like, A couple of months I like a year probably and then I was at the bar and it had a party there and she was there and I didn't I didn't know I didn't she was like hey it's nice to see you she was and I'm like like like who's this or happy and I don't even like know I don't I don't know this person so I'm like, how do you know me she's like you don't remember me and I'm late oh okay yeah.

06:18:28
I remember you now so it's like I could I couldn't remember but kind of for for like visual free reasons is it's like I couldn't meet the connections everyone's had the experience of confusing identical twins, so imagine if lots of people look like that. Yeah, I I was gonna ask are you good at sort of visually imagining people's faces?

06:18:52
I not at that at all like like the way the weight of my fabulization is it's like if you turned your phone off and it's just dark like it's dark, sometimes it'll be like a dark greenish little static but I let the visual comes up but like if I dreamed of my dreams of everything like it, let's look like a real life.

06:19:13
I think it'd be hard to tell the difference but I'll see like a, And a dream I'm like, okay that doesn't happen in real life this is a dream so this is an extreme case but I've seen a patient who had a hypoxic brain injury which was resulted in hippocampal atrophy and they reported that in their dreams people didn't have discernible faces and the imagery in the dream was very very sparse so their description so so suppose this type of hypoxic injury so.

06:19:51
Oxygen deprivation they were resuscitation. I think of the course about 20 minutes in resuscitation. I don't quote me on this but I think with CPR you get something like 30 to 40% of blood oxygenation but knowing your full and so they basically had damage to the hippocampus which is a structure particularly vulnerable to anoxia and so yeah the interesting thing aside from anterograde amnesia, which is which is common in hypoxic injury is that their dreams had very.

06:20:26
Sparse mental imagery it would cover it over time but but not fully but but yeah face of navigating back and it would of course make sense that in your dreams you are not taking in sensory thoughts you are relying on building everything from a process that we can imagine must involve the hippocampus so yeah likely the visualization kind of deficit or just like kind of like your sub medium performance would involve.

06:21:01
A memory and they become this quite likely. Thank you. And in like oxygen to. Fan oh no that's just oh yes it's a way that the hip campus is frequently damaged by oxygen deprivation yeah and my dreams like I dignify faces regularly I could tell like, um, like like like this person face that person face that person face and like like like nobody nobody arms or something like that like what one time one time that happened, um, I was on club house and that was unquote and that kind of fell asleep and people were still talking and I woke but when I was sleeping, I was hearing people say stuff and I was getting a visuals to it kind of like if it was like a um, Like a Microsoft presence like a Microsoft Word presentation or something like a like a animation to what they were saying and I woke up like were yeah talking about this and where I was talking about they were like yes and but I seen a visual so it's like in my dream I was able because I was still hearing stuff.

06:22:02
I was getting visuals to it, but if I try to imagine that like on my own it's like, um, nothing is that I'm definitely trying to work on as I could like visualize stuff again. Wow. I had no even I think useful suggestions as to what that so so so just just so I have that straight you're saying that in waking life you are not that good recognizing people's faces, but when you are dreaming you have you see the faces of people that are in your dreams per this example from voices that you essentially manufacture you see from a fairly high resolve is that right correct, um, but more so like, I think I think at, I think with um, like the trouble that I have with like remembering people's names and also like remembering on people that I people that I that I seen before.

06:22:59
I know that it has to do with my like. I got a like, it's like it's better if somebody personality stands out. Or like you're gonna leave some type of like emotional impression on me then it's easier to remember them because I could connect I could associate them with that feeling but if I try to if I try to remember like okay, what is dexter look like my my my my mind's eye just stays black so I wouldn't be able to see anything but if you appear it's like, oh you're like my mom.

06:23:26
Correct yeah I guess it seems you know pretty livable that's something like that would happen because I discrimination and visual input is a different process than having a identity in your imagination and and sort of you know, an inner dream sort of, you know, completing that with a visual image point it's it's called advantage if you want to check out more about it like how it how it works with the the brain and everything like I was only aware of it early last year that when I was trying to visualize stuff.

06:23:55
I was only seeing darkness and I wasn't actually, Saying stuff so like if I was to count sheep, I was just like I moved like more visually do it like one sheep to sheep but it's like I can't I can't see the sheep and and count on anything like that how's your working memory so for example, if I gave you a list of like 12 items and gave you five seconds to look at it and then say okay tell me the 12 items that you saw as best as you can tasks like that, how are you with that?

06:24:25
Definitely definitely weak you like definitely weak with that because it's like I have to it's like I can't visit like it's like to know extent would I be able to? To still see so it's like I got to rely on what I remember and so depending on on what it was and like asparagus Alexa, it's like if it was stuff that I'm familiar with right like if you showed me and even I just tricky like if you showed me like a star circle triangle like, you know, like like some simple stuff that I'm familiar with so that okay like I see it and I can't see it anymore, but I really know those things really really well, okay cool.

06:25:02
I can kind of like, um, probably through my best job describing what was there, but I still might not do too good, but if you if you were to show me like, um, Maybe let's see if I can affect an example, like if you give it a show me different different sneakers and stuff like that and like I want I want to be I want to be able to remember myself you gave me a list of names and I had to yes, so not that not that good on on that part.

06:25:30
I had to play like memory cards or something like that not that good. I was just asking because that ability to recall stuff is um localized to the dorsal ladder of pre-purple cortex and so as you were saying you're in the ability to recall faces. And things like that just want to know how much that generalized out to you know other attributes that like numbers names and things like that just like a list of arbitrary items themselves like it does yes, yes yeah.

06:26:03
I'm told me if you showed me nine different cakes like red velvet cheesecake, this is like I would I would only be able to remember like the one two or three that's left out and I wouldn't be able to to to recall the stuff that I seen. However, you're oh, just click on that, can you remember a phone numbers?

06:26:22
Okay if I if I if I try really really hard um, yes, but like most I don't know it's like like my current number I don't know it was like one phone number I had in my life that I remembered and it was it was kind of on the easier side of phone numbers, but I so it.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio