b0323y ctpr
(audio transcription needs fixing)
SIMULATION Black & Chrome Media Conversation that I participated in.
Topics: Entanglement & Simulation

So imagine a line has to navigate through its own environment and it has to do you know, just the way a computer can render. A 3D object from code. Our brains render 3D objects from incoming senses and so the line is is rendering a 3D environment in order to navigate that environment and it's rendering a representation itself in order to move through that environment so they can go from point.

01:08
A to point B.

01:34
Here, you know, obviously not the universe but it begins to show that certain aspects of intelligence may very well be modeled. So I had a thought about this a while back that I feel is basically the key the key idea here and that is that in order for a simulation theory to be relevant it has to be has to be easier to explain reality itself than whereas if if you have a situation where adding simulation theory to reality adds a plus one to the complexity of reality then we have to.

02:09
Only need it to front because of like Occam's razor, right? We have to go with the simplest explanation of reality. So the only situation in which you know, we would switch from you know reality is is a is what you know, what scientists have been telling us for a long time to assimilation is if the simulation hypothesis actually was the easier explanation for reality is and and so that that's that's the big that's the big question is it is it adding complexity to our understanding of reality or is it making reality easier to understand?

02:45
But by definition the simulation have to be created.

02:52
No, I mean, some people are debating whether or not it's been created already, right? I mean, obviously somebody created it maybe you know, somebody is either a you know, someone else that could be in someone else's computer and someone else, you know could be a Russian doll problem where it's just one simulation in another and another and another is that is that what you were talking about here?

03:11
You have a Vegas even there yesterday. Someone's hitting like, I guess it's the question of liked it. It's programmed and someone hits go like Kevin have an issue of physics simulation and we have kind of initial state degrees of freedom and and interactions within this degrees of freedom and just let the system fall forward in time.

03:35
And I guess. At that point that that's that's the almost the same thing as reality to me. So but I get that there is like the that higher question of whether someone actually like programmed it and it started the first place. Well, there's also a theory that we are our own.

03:57
It's the matrix idea where we're in charge of our agent here on earth and we are in another dimension trying to have a human experience and sing with that's like because we are of a higher level of intelligence

04:26
You know, and we don't have that in this other dimension. I think that's a very interesting way of looking at it as well. When it comes to like, Manifesting and you get into some of the more you know, psychic abilities or precognition, it's pretty fascinating to look at it that way as well.

04:46
If I can say I think if if the simulation has to be someone else's that were on someone else's computer we're adding complexity and therefore, you know, we can with Occam's razor we can say okay, well that's not necessary it could be true but it's less likely than that we're not.

05:04
That I cut out, um. Yeah so awkward yeah so if if if the simulations that we have to be on someone else's computer then we have to say well where did that computer come from it that is similar to the argument will they, you know, God created the universe what created God right it's sort of like the that that is like additional complexity does not need it and then we we can just cut that theory down because it's not necessary it's there's an easier explanation, but if it's the case that you know, if if if understanding the rules of if understanding the the properties and and maybe you call them the laws of quantum physics and And reality at a fundamental level if we can say well reality is in some sense a computation or a simulation or a holographic computation simulation what like I'm sorry a bunch of buzzwords in there right but but um, but but if if at that point, you know, maybe that ties into you know, Amy's like Amy's idea that the the beingness can existed and different level of abstraction that's it's it's different and has different dimensions, they're less physical and then then maybe there's a way to say that you know, so they calling.

06:17
The universe simulation is is is simpler and less complex explanation for what reality is than the old old way and in that in that case as as more people begin to understand that and and agree with that then that becomes and that would become the consensus perhaps. But it but it has to be shown we have to get to the point where you know Lilith would would even agree that it's easier to call it to to understand realities accumulation, you know, if to to understand, you know, everything from from quantum physics to to to life and and everything else in between but but I I'm not yet at that understanding so I don't I don't know that that's that is an easier explanation.

07:08
You're taking like the the random of that type thing, so like. Say I myself I would have agency but like the inputs coming from the external world or are all simulated for me. Exactly. I mean, I think quantum entanglement is interesting um, and I I think that a little do you work with quantum physics no now I just good old-fashioned linear algebra's is what makes the the AI that I work on work yeah yeah, it's good traffic you have to do okay cool.

07:48
I think you know, quantum entanglement is is I think the biggest.

07:57
Example. I think of how it could be a simulation. I I think of all of the, The reasons you know that you can go through the fact that you know, you can.

08:14
Well, I mean, I'm not gonna I'm not a quantum physicist, but I do I do study it and I can't articulate it correctly, but I know that if you are can put. Is there anybody here that can explain that you could put to particles together and then they you can separate them right and they behave the same way that to me suggests that okay if we're talking to our self in our mind which everybody does I mean, we all bounce ideas off of our.

08:51
Yeah your microphone broke up but that you're thinking why? Quantum entanglement. Go ahead. I could I your microphone is breaking up so I just threw in that. I think you're talking about quantum entangment, but I'll just pause and let you continue sorry the micro your microphone broke up that's why I said yeah.

09:11
I'm having some a bad connection sorry. Um, I just think that you know, if you split atoms or you split particles correct and there's an entanglement. I I just look at the mind as and there's an entanglement in another dimension that is communicating with me here some people call that God.

09:35
And we are able to exist in different planes and and that is proven with quantum entanglement, so I just think that's interesting anybody have any thoughts on that, so there are some complications to that so. If my mind is inner like so say my my mind is entangled with some external dimension as you say if that mine is also interacting with the real world like that you're having a look like a continuous loss of that entangled connection right see you would have to keep those those elements completely to keep that and entangled connection fixed and then you can't can't use climate hanging it to transmit classical information you you're only really at least classical person in the speed of light.

10:30
You can you're really it's it's sort of complicated you should be you can only kind of transmit these correlations but there's no classical information that you can transmit festive light with long diagonal. I have one thing that I wanted to say well they say a lot of different things with article accelerators and stuff like that like, you know, like random things that could happen especially when things are split like atoms.

11:02
Of things are. Already. Spreading two different things that are equivalent.

11:13
They put off, you know immediately like faster than even light. And there's like so many different theories but. I think maybe it's everything that they talk about with article accelerators and stuff happen, you know by creating a successful accelerator spraying arms or something. So maybe that's kind of like opening up emperor's box right there.

11:45
I'm explaining and helping me to look at things.

12:05
People that this is like a well remember you can create your own equations to like everything is everything in the world is not strict. You can become your own like you can discover something today too, you know. So yeah. I think you're getting ready too much credit.

12:32
But I'm not I don't think I can change from you.

12:44
But I mean, I think okay like I. Could eat it. It's definitely appreciated.

12:53
But I guess. But have like a lot of skepticism about it. It has an actual like proposed like right like to talk about it as like an actual like this is the art theory of what is happening. It's like a very different thing from the adventure's exploring the analogy or or different ways of like making sense of art lived it experiences like it's just like a very different thing.

13:20
Then some really considerate as I. As an exclamation for reality. Do exist not really.

13:49
With a simulation is that look at how the world travels works right now. Some stupid but I actually thought like I was a fake inside of an apple. So, I'm a person and that was looking through an eye and.

14:15
You know, everyone could be right and everyone could be wrong at the same time, but one thing that's always kept me on the loop is that an assimilation everything has to be chaotic for the researcher or the person conducting the surgery.

14:39
That the, Words with incessary research. If anyone purses the idea that there's a simulation and it's not falsifiable that is obviously a religion and I just will unfollow that person never listen to them again because you can't like that this is like a simulation has to be a falsifiable argument up to be real like it's it's like it's like saying in relation.

15:06
I say well you have to believe there's a thing above your mind that you can understand and I have to say no I disagree with that. I believe that there's nothing above my mind you're just you have to prove that you can't just like you say, oh there's things about your mind, you can't understand them and and there's things you can't figure out cautious can't.

15:23
Figure out like these are like fake sort of like boundaries that people are trying to put on you to keep you inside the matrix inside their ideas, so I just we're not listening.

15:58
Right?

16:02
Down.

16:06
Especially in our life. Just. Believe in you man. Like you.

16:24
Finally understand like maybe a video feeling of unconscious so the only thing I would ask you is instead of saying we don't we can't understand it to say I can't understand it again don't speak for me don't speak to other people say I can't understand it but but for yourself, you know, that's like like I'm not accepting any sort of limitations what I can understand but you're welcome to do that for yourself.

17:11
Rules and properties does it assuming it if the virtualization kind of hypothesis is true that it doesn't matter that the neurons don't really matter and therefore the substrate doesn't matter if you can apply a set of rules to seemingly any substrate as long as you have codified it in a certain kind of language you get like going off the deep end here.

17:35
I mean, that is what? You people survival. That there is some artificial entity that is a program that that is running and that this program is interpretable basically by you know, it it constructs universes and it it constructs us and be obeying and we discover what it what it know what it.

18:06
What it presents to us by reverse engineering, what is what it is presenting to. Yeah so like what I'm saying is is yeah exactly it if is there an ideal or as we evolve languages here, there is supreme language that could possibly be out there that that if we're in order to be applied to our current substrate that we would kind of give us the insights into this and you know because as lines as you wants, you know, we've learned new things and even going to the quantum stuff now with everyone's talking about like the settings calculus and all these different new ways to for represent.

18:41
Ative of the universe is that you think that if we had is there a ideal language that we could eventually realize these concepts with. I think people in the AI community are still struggling with that and there's there's no it depends on the kind of domain that you're talking about, you know, some people talk about, you know, some researchers talk about making languages that are so abstract and you know humans might have a difficult time following, you know, but not that's still not enough.

19:12
I don't think it would necessarily as my college to not be able to understand eventually but again, it's sort of that machine learning neural network type of complexity where it becomes a horn expensive of Need to disseminate. You know, but I think it depends on the domain that you're talking about, you know.

19:36
You know that we have our leg.

19:42
S all of the things that.

19:48
Debated.

19:52
Let you know when my. Microwave talks.

19:58
The good attitude but they're not the knowledgeable about.

20:03
Being what they know.

20:09
Yeah, you know. As close to perfect alignment. Make it fun. Buddy else so they can. Pay basically turn.

20:24
This self an algorithm in and of itself and that's the way I like to work in the AI area is to be able to merge the directions the language the rationales or the how the wide caused the effect all of the the subtle stuff right down to the unit of where it can't be didn't decompose any further so I would just assume that you know based on everything that I've seen on this planet, maybe when I go to my other planet.

20:52
I'll tell you. But on this planet at least I'm you know, it seems like there's a mixture of languages going on in our heads in addition not only to the languages but as mica would well point out the the and as you pointed out the substrate, you know are our brains as an interfaces with our our brain and so you mix all of that together the the way our brain processes and fires and connects all of this information the information itself.

21:24
And then the environment and so that all could if you were to. Know everything. You know. I think some sort of universal link. That would be computable in a way that is not just standing there, you know in a sort of machine but but actually begins to take on a sort of a sentient autonomous type of creature that is that that this you know being able to.

21:58
Interact with the university in some deep way then you know, some simple computer.

22:06
Yeah. Jim, can I see a question? Short number so like they can be speaking about like simulations.

22:20
Think about like directory like you know, when you're in a game and you look away from somewhere yeah completely new renders to save processing, you know revenue stuff like that like editors you can you know etc with memory and at the moment you look at it again, everything is just full as you are it's like, you know what?

22:37
I mean, how games and different you know, yeah and so I was wondering what I thought like some of the things like that are like, you know when you're looking, Like a mountain. Or a valley or something and these kind of see it's a distance that far and like fog.

22:59
Gy the guys don't think about that a lot when I was younger and then just before you fall asleep. You still aware you're still conscious like. Super second of it, you realize how it's gone and like. As your eyes are clues, you know. They.

23:18
To be honest. I don't know I don't I mean, I mean, yeah, I just don't have much to say about that. I just think it's some of the things that you're talking about are just natural effects, so I mean, There is some things do break apart we have limits to our senses and so you know things don't always remain coherent so things that do break apart things do get distances just associated being as you become you know, chaotic.

23:54
So yeah, I mean things. You seem to be pretty. Explainable and multiple domains, but maybe there's some you know, again we still don't know. I mean, again many people's biggest, you know, we we know again we I know Michael I've got to be you know attentive to like this idea about that I speak for myself but I'm I can say that you know, you know, I would make a statement though that some people do big claims, you know.

24:25
Be that they're certain levels of definitiveness. I think. Discussed about how you know how people characterize their level of understanding to their their their level of claim as to how much they know about the universe and I would say that it's still at you know, as we discussed in here still not really enough so you know what you're talking about them regarding, you know, looking out into the it's a universe and not knowing but they're certain.

25:01
There's that good that rendering will require a highly representation. I guess that if I'm thinking I'd be back to the Braeden event or like matrix type simulation of the five patients, even someone's beating me so some digital simulation of my world that the the fight digital simulation of my environment directed to my brain.

25:28
That computation would need to be at least as large as this is like the amount of degrees of freedom within my life come so. Yeah exactly then how come like it is a good question and I on top of that help. How how much can you compress that that information so let me touch that certain computations could be fast forwarded to for certain effects other things.

26:01
I mean, you have to think what experiments can can I do to try and distinguish between you know. Foot breaks the laws of physics or something like that. So given whatever tools I have access to. Be a precise tools or regiments that I can make about the world and the more precise that's emotions used to be.

26:24
Thank you bring up a good point Jeffrey and I'm like the what tools is and you're talking about as you drift off to sleep so in your jeopardy talk about light cones, maybe like experimenting with PGO waves like conscientious maniculate occipital waves, that's your dream perfect off your brain kind of entertains other at other algorithms that normally.

26:44
Tear apart the that domains that were about because like maybe it's more interesting like we're talking about filming. This walls between the domains. How as you drift off and asleep those?

27:01
Are stand from an optimal logical person. Because. Of the, Keys of those. Do other things algorithmically that you normally wouldn't you bring normally doesn't do in normal conscious. Yeah, literally yeah.

27:23
I have no background in neuroscience or anything about unconscious database.

27:34
What information goes in out of the eye like you know, like what what data is coming in and out of our brain we know through our eyes and years and mouth but like. I. Mean observing the eye as it as you drift off into consciousness. What because that's what your brain is.

27:57
Leading exposed through your eye and as there are really throughout a brain machine interface with probably if it's not invasive we have to go through the eye because that's when your brain exposed from understand so if you've experimented through the with doing experimentation with the eye from my respect and then that the way I I'm the Hebrew, you know, if you guys on that podcast, but that's that's right about the PTO waves.

28:22
Yeah, I think even using all. You know, because hearing. A vastly groups with blindness, so. I would say an experiment with all. Even touch. Es. You don't get in those other work that I do and I think I was sort of indicating.

28:49
that something exists that they that they you know, they can begin to point to something and they actually know where they have a prediction in their mind that that they've seen it before or they've seen it in a particular place and they're going to see it again that kind of thing and so they're trying.

29:55
Know obviously if you're online that you could come up with a series of patterns, however, you put your hearing patterns for touch patterns for smell so our senses can be used as gateways to quite a few basically for the beginning.

31:38
Exactly.

32:20
What?

33:00
A certain pattern.

33:11
Memory similarity among. St changing but you know, at least the goal I think is at least in the AI area is to try to be able to first generalize and see that what it is and what we can do that is a light.

34:08
And the ones that are created with just say you're in this room and you learn something right there's there's neural pathways that are that are created is that due to the proteins. I eat well.

34:26
Yes, yes new protein synthesis is is an essential component of your brain forming new new pathways in terms of you know, long-term long-term memory the data answer your question.

34:47
Yeah, I mean it was kind of a question absolutely so I've seen this meme in the news before about are we living in a simulation? I'm curious how would one go about determining this realistically. Well, that's what we're here for this is an interesting group discussion on. You know what it means so I mean there's a lot of research that you can do in different factors.

35:22
I mean everybody here probably has a little bit of info we've been talking now for a couple of hours, so if you have any direct question, we'll take it. That is my direct question. It depends on which simulation you're you're talking about because these we've been talking about different forms of different types of simulations.

36:14
You know, I mean, you know offspring or something and then left, you know here, you know, so what I'm trying to say is what if another life form gave, you know birth to the first versions of humans and different sorts of humans and kind of just left. I mean, a lot of people have theories of different things watching over us and some phenomenon happening, so I'm just gonna letting people beat up thought for the official.

36:42
I don't really believe in. I mean, I'm just putting something out there, yeah. Those be more like harvesting our reality than simulating it then right? How many would be technically simulating since they're always watching over in my scene and like trying to maybe understand how you know that there's this phenomenon that is actually being studied by scientists and it's saying that one civilizations are intelligent grief like reach a certain sort of intelligence level or something they just die something happens, you know, and they're trying to understand like why that happens and so maybe in a theory in a sandbox, these are what these intelligent micromes are doing trying to understand when does intelligent life forms kind of end themselves or Hurt intelligent civilizations and themselves when we're not even at a type one civilization yes, so it's pretty interesting, right?

37:37
I mean a lot of these arguments could also be like metaphors for what you know is going on inside people's brains trying to you know, they just hope this whole the simulation hypothesis could be born out of someone's curiosity about you know, how this civilization will end and we're sort of like metaphorically mapping that to some alien race but it's just a it's just a reference to some abstract entity inside someone's mind I guessed in order to disown their own curiosity.

38:15
I'll never forget my gear eight science teacher.

38:20
And said Amanda I haven't told the student this in a very long time but I just want to put this into your brain and and you'll think about it one day and I didn't think about it maybe for another five or ten years when I was a little bit older and he said just simply this what if your existence is just someone else's dream and I've never forgotten about it since that day and it really, you know, when we ask the question are we living in a simulation?

38:45
I always go back to that so to give some context for anyone in the audience or or maybe up on stage my interpretation of that statement he made to me was. Say for example someone in another place whether it be on earth or anywhere else is falling asleep and dreaming we have quite vivid dreams.

39:04
I remember my dreams really well, but what if that's actually someone else's life in your dreaming that life into existence or something along those lines so still haven't figured it out it definitely changed my life when he implanted that thought into my brain but I just thought attending to the question are we living in a simulation?

39:22
I just wanted to throw another one of my gear eight science teachers mind bending questions through my way. The interesting perspective of whether the characters that we dream of actually have agencies within our own.

39:41
Yeah, yeah got me thinking mean to you thinking yeah thanks something thanks for those great and some Jeffrey's point before about if the CPU taking the simulation theory where it's from the point of origin of the universe to the point of its whatever the the endpoint is and and that's the scope of the simulation if you think about that as being you know, incredibly long period of time but could potentially be almost a dream state whether it's hours or 
or some.

40:16
Extraneous being or extraneous computational algorithm, it does. It does certainly let me at least think about things like determinism. I think our ego gets in the way of wanting us to have free will but if it if it is our us or some something like us that's actually created this extended and very complex effectively reality movie and that's sort of the way that that I think about it if it if the simulations like a movie then it does explain why you could protect you could you know, if you're the cast of the movie then you're going about your activities as though.

41:00
You've got free will not realizing that the plots already written and that there's a deterministic end it also explains why they're the passage of time seems progressive and linear whereas if you then if you then collapse that movie down to a file and store it somewhere all of that time all of that expanded time in that external environment lives continuously and into end at one particular point of time so back to my earlier when I think simulation theory at least allows us some analogies to look at concepts from a different.

41:35
Perspective there's nothing I was talking about with kind of setting initial conditions and you know the parameters of the universe is letting the system go it wouldn't exactly be analogous to telling a movie because we're not right you're not writing the state of the universe at all future times down to memory all you're happy is the initial conditions and the view of the system interact.

42:04
S itself and that that sense is not actually the best affordable if we're keeping track of every bit of information in the university if you try and do some sort of compression and. What what elements are easily predictable.

42:29
What what about the all-in-one theory where the theory is that awareness simulation, but every single life every single experience is you but in a different sort of time period. And this is actually a theory that was actually being studied to it was to be you know, but like it's it's kind of like implementing it's like imagine every single version of every single person, you know me you change journey everybody in this chat right now is just me in a different point, you know what I mean?

43:07
That's the theory that you are actually creating your reality. That's saying yeah, it's like you reality is you yeah consciousness again. Like people with comas like they have this experience of seeing something terrestrial or something going on in the head and sometimes it actually allies and people always talk about like the fifth dimension and like all the good intentions of things like you want that you'll receive so kind of makes sense, you know, I'm sorry I was what yeah, it is very hell once.

43:46
I'm not really a fan of that one. I just think I do think that we are all coexisting. And I I would hate to think that I was creating this entire thing. I would have to have an imagination that was pretty extreme to create all of the characters or avatars in my life but I mean that is that has been talked about with the simulation theory that is one aspect of looking at it.

44:15
I just think it's a little narcissistic just to say that yeah. I remember like I'm sorry I talked to why she's saying that again fireman but I was younger I was about 14 years old and this is around the, Time that I really did not want to leave the country and my parents were taking me outside of it.

4
I was very ill at malaria or something was just I don't remember but so I fell asleep and I kid you not with all the characters in that show with all the you know, special guests and everything. I Feed a Christmas special in my dream all be using all the characters using different sorts of plots even places that I've been to in reality and by the time that I woke up I remembered it all but it was just like I I was just crazy I think I was baffled because I remembered it out of all of my other dreams be I created it and see it was actually good like the theme songs there too and everything it was just I missed the show so much that I recreated it in my mind.

45:35
That was that still baffles me till today. I could subject how many people in this room have lucid dreams.

45:48
I also pulling a sleep hearing people speaking on clubhouse and club houses definitely not on. I'm so used to the back chatter that it's it's actually there in my head still which is um frustrating but also very funny and kind of adds to what MSA a little bit as well.

46:04
I'm glad you raced that and it's definitely something I've written it down to learn a little bit more about but dancing it's great to have so many different opinions and thanks guys for hosting this space as well, it's bending my mind in all the right way, so thank you.

46:17
You know also I was just having a thought about the you know various different simulations and no just it's interesting from a perspective of complication. I brought up this idea of what if there was only you know, so much complication in the universe but as well maybe there are levels to complication as to what different simulations are capable of simulating and that you know, we look at our reality as humans and you know to some extent we communicate one sentence at a time we're not we're not thinking, you know, I mean, we may be able to think you know in a few levels.

46:52
Time and sort of there's a certain latent processing going on but in general when we speak we're usually you know able to communicate, you know one state and educate at a time we're able to you know, generate a certain amount of data in it in a day, you know, right so many pages read so many pages but you know, you won wonders where in different simulations with with different levels of capacity and complexity if you know some life forms in in others, you know, again if this was a simulation or if there are these multiple simulations that you can travel.

47:27
Between whether or not some simulations there, they're literally processing so XX times the amount you know, that we are so exponentially more than we are and you almost wonder where if there's almost like an information overload if there's a point where you want to actually get off the simulation and have the option to be able to to move to another simulation is actually more human-like we actually have more peace of mind where there's actually not so much information going between everyone.
Transcribed by Pixel

Audio