=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0325y Question to Dr Boris Konrad @boriskonrad .com Memory Adhd Alzheimer
First recorded: 2021-04-02T18:54:24.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/1ce6051f-0fcb-46cf-88a3-ede24e683de5
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
And memory training can help a big deal, and many people in the 60s and 70s can be better than they ever were, literally, if they just used their brain correctly, using, for example, the modeling techniques. Does it answer your question, right?
Yes, thank you.
Thank you, May. So, if I can sum that up. So, what you're saying, Boris, is that, regardless, it doesn't matter how old you are, if you use the method of loci, it can confer some benefits as long as there's not a physiological,
impediment, such as amyloid plaques that you see from Alzheimer's. Is that correct?
That's correct. See, I used way too many words.
Oh, sorry.
I love it. Okay, I love it. I love your sense of humor. I'm all for that.
Hey, I just want to say, I love the people in this room. So many incredibly great questions. I've benefited from everyone's questions. Thank you so much.
We are now going to go to Fahad, Micah, and Joy. Go ahead if you have a question or a comment.
I totally have some quick questions I could send to Dr. Conrad. It's Micah. This is Micah here.
All right. So, I have a few rapid-fire questions. So, one is, what about the possibility of, because I've heard that attention deficit disorder,
sometimes there's, like, less blood activity in the frontal cortex or the prefrontal cortex or part of the brain or frontal lobes.
Yes, and what I meant is, I've also heard that it's been compared to Alzheimer's in terms of, Alzheimer's and ADD or ADHD are both memory disorders.
And so, I've also heard that, so, creatine, there's some studies that say creatine can improve memory and blood flow.
And then, some people are saying if you get, like, a 40 hertz vibration plate, that can improve your blood flow and perhaps your memory.
So, I wanted your feedback on that.
And I don't know if you need to write this down because it's a lot to remember, but what about also nootropics?
And there was a study that came out about Alzheimer's that said that new protein synthesis, animals treated with a chemical to induce more new protein synthesis,
were able to recover some of their memory.
And so, I'm curious about, you know, are there chemicals that we can use that can improve our protein synthesis to improve our long-term memories?
And probably the last question is, are there really, like, lots of different types of memory?
Because I think it's, like, episodic memory and all these other types of memories.
It's like, I think it's, you have long-term potentiation.
Long-term potentiation.
And you have long-term depression.
And you have short-term memory, which is the activity of neural circuits.
And I think that's about it.
And the rest is, like, I don't know, maybe it's just ideas.
Anyway, those are my questions.
I'd love to hear your thoughts.
So, you started, if I'm right, it doesn't necessarily mean there are, yeah, as you mentioned, prefrontal cortex is where we think memory, strategic planning happens,
where working memory has a seat, in a way, it's always networked across the whole brain.
But, therefore, different diseases that affect your attention as well as your memory have effects in there or the other way around.
If you see damages or issues with prefrontal cortex, it's not surprising the different memory or focus functions might be effective.
But there is no link so far between these two diseases.
So, longitudinal studies didn't find, for example, people with ADHD developing Alzheimer's more often than others.
So, I hope to answer this part.
In terms of creatine and monogutro, this is something I'm not too confident with to really give a good answer on that.
So, it certainly interacts with each other.
But I'm not aware of any studies looking into creatine supplementation or any memory processes, at least.
You asked about other neutropics as well.
Well, I did a study, which I found really interesting, together with C. Chavite in Berlin, one of the biggest clinics we have in Germany,
where they looked into various forms, or we, to guess, looked into various forms of product of enhancement,
and they looked into the pharmacological side.
You see, actually, that any neutropics or any pharmacological memory treatment you could take would beat a purely training-based strategy.
Often, in neutropics, we found that they help only those who begin with deficit.
So, high performers typically do not tend to benefit, even from things like retiline.
If you start from some form of attention deficit, which might be ADHD, or might not be diagnosed with ADHD, but might be there,
effects do show up, but in high performers, they are irrelevant at best, if not even harmful.
Therefore, I'm not also aware of anything that might directly help protein synthesis.
To my knowledge, I think protein synthesis theory is just like the one model of memory formation.
And this is more a team of electoral neuroscience, I'm also more following as an interested reader, I'm doing it myself.
So, I will need to keep it short here, but I'm not aware of anything we could do, sorry.
And, yes, I'm really sure there are different memories, at least a few more, as you mentioned.
So, long-term potentiations, maybe more term coming from consolidation, from how memory is changing, persistent, or not persistent over time.
But it doesn't mean there are not different forms of memory.
So, on the time scale, there are different three.
I would say there is sensory memory, there is short-term memory, and there is long-term memory.
But it's just the time scale.
And if you look more closely into long-term memory, for example, we see by people who have hippocampal lesions,
that they have a full loss of C lesions really strong in forming episodic memories.
But they can still form procedural memories.
There is this extremely famous case of patient HM, where a surgeon decided to remove his hippocampal due to an epilepsy,
and they couldn't form any new long-term memories in terms of autobiographical memory anymore.
But they could still learn movements, such as making, hitting a golf ball,
which shows that different forms of memory are actually different memory systems.
Yes.
Fantastic.
And, Micah, that was four questions than one.
And we are going to end on the hour, and we still have yet to get to our memory challenge,
where we are actually, I am going to give Dr. Conrad a list of 30 mostly single-digit numbers
to memorize and see and put his method of loci to the test.
So, for that, we are going to try to, I'm going to ask that if we could just limit our questions to one question quickly
so we can get through everyone's question and then do the exciting demo.
So, Joy, Hussain, Ramsey, our next, and Bruce, our next.
