The Self Aware Networks Institute for Neurophysics, Artificial Neurology & Bio-Synthetic Interfaces
Jul 28, 2022
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VTBNyUM47Zg
Video Transcript

Hi, this is Michael Blumberg. I'm the CEO of the Self Aware Networks Institute and we want to make real sentient robots that are conscious just like animals or human beings. Uh this is based on over 10 years of research. It's based on over 200 years of of of neuroscience, biology. Um a study of machine learning and physics. So, I've got this I've collected a lot of advanced ideas and pushed some scientific concepts beyond where they are today and most of the research that you can find out there. But there's a lot, you can find a lot of references on the GitHub. So, there's actually the GitHub is available software network V5MA and what you're going to see is the basic concepts are that we talk so so this explores the basic theoretical concepts in terms of how the human brain works. Um I've invented some new phrases like cellular oscillating tomography and neural array projection, oscillating tomography to explain how the brain Yep. Um takes the models that it is creating and makes them conscious through through temporal oscillations. Um that bind together the the models and create the renderings of your conscience. Basically, your brain and and antiphies. Um the representations of reality through by passing the representations from neural the way to the next and then binding them together in time and space. Um with oscillations. And the oscillations help to craft your representations of reality into the experience of consciousness. That is you. And so this is the sort of like this is going to be the wiki page. It's in progress. Um it goes over all the biology from cellular biology to the neural to the networks of the of the brain at at a at every scale. Um there's there's new concepts in terms of like how memories are stored from a synaps and then be become extracted from synaptic memories to the whole brain. Uh this research is really I'm not bragging when I say this is really state-of-the-art research and with this technology that I'm developing from this research, we can change the world. We can build 3D neural networks that can extract gases from selectively extract gases from the atmosphere including the atmosphere and clean the oceans. We can have robots to clean oceans and we can build robots that will build houses, dog-level robots that are construction robots but they're very friendly to human beings. Uh so, the potential is really great and this is a unique product with unique research and I hope that it becomes recognized that it can be supported more broad ly by by countries and corporations and this research will lead to everyone in the world basically becoming rich through the economies of scale. Thank you.