=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: WebXR UI UX Design ideas Text
First recorded: 2021-05-15T03:46:34.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/60908a9b-e4d9-4448-9e2f-17b58cf8d130
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Okay, so imagine a voxel letter program. So you're just imagining, like, that you basically create, like, one JPEG that has an entire article text on it, but you're only going to put, like, a small, like, two lines in front of the person at a time, so that the article can have, like, you know, tons of text and tons of images.
But you're just going to call, like, you're just going to call the map, a section of the map at a time, to be on a given texture.
So that means when they click Next for Previous, like, it cycles through, like, your slides on a single texture.
So that, you don't have, you don't have to, like, have, like, uh, so it's like, it dynamically changes which texture is on which, uh, slide.
So that means that you can basically, like, touch the, touch the object and its material, you click on the object and its material will change.
So that means the object itself can come with its own, uh, menu of options.
And, um, so you have, so we have, basically, you have the Next, Previous, and then, like, a Home button.
It's like, forward, backwards, Home.
Um, uh, but then, each, an individual slide can have, like, I guess, like, hyperlinks, sort of.
Uh, yeah, so sort of, like, hyperlinks.
Where, like, where, like, you can touch any part of the thing.
But it basically has buttons.
Okay.
And, um, so, but also it has, like, but also it's taking, like, what we're doing is restoring all the, um,
the textures of, like, the maximum size that the Quest can do as, like, one texture.
So we're gonna have, like, one texture that has all the textures on it.
Um, if that's convenient.
I mean, I think there might be one texture that's, like, environmental.
Uh, yeah, that'd be interesting.
Like, what, can I, okay, so what I want to know is, like, if, yeah, so, yeah, I think,
like, so, I think what probably happens is that if you call a texture coordinate,
then the light has to interact with the object
before being passed on to the texture that's matched to that object.
And it's not like you can light the texture before it goes to the object.
Um, but, yeah, so the thing is, like, yeah, if you can, basically, if you can figure out
how to map textures, not just, um, uh, for, um, well, not just for, uh, pictures, not just
for text, right?
So you can do, like, a texture of the article, I can flip through it, I guess I could, I guess I could,
that scroller would be cool.
Kind of like, kind of like a, um, a big, a big cylinder, right?
Imagine a big cylinder and, like, the text, like, sort of wraps around, but it's, like, so big
that, like, anything above, but you can only see the cylinder through another shape.
So basically, like, yeah, but you could roll it, right?
You could, like, roll it.
Yeah, just kind of, like, I could roll the magazine, right?
So that's the idea, it's, like, the magazine is, like, a roller, and you reach out with your hand,
and you, like, uh, you roll it with your fingertips, so you, like, you, like, move it, like, a hand gesture,
you connect your finger to it, and move your hand gesture in any direction, and that will change the,
that will scroll it, and, um, and then if you, like, swipe left and right, that would be the next previous.
And so maybe, yeah, so maybe you have, like, uh, you have, like, you can do it on your hands here,
so you have, like, a hand roller.
So one hand will, like,
you could hold the roller,
uh, or it could, like, sort of, sort of, like, um, float, sort of in front of you, but loosely.
So, like, it just, like, stays in your proximal location, and it keeps, like, sort of coming back.
But it's not, like, it's sort of, like, following you, but it's not actually, um,
but it's not actually tracking to your, to your exact place.
So it's, like, um, sort of, like, it's following your, so you could, it's always, like, a staying close,
but, like, um, but, like, a slight delay, like, the follower, right?
So it just keeps following you, and, like, but it's always, like, near your hand.
So you can, like, you can, like, uh,
it's sort of following your...
Is that going to make it follow the controller, or is it going to make it follow your, like, your head position a little bit?
Yeah, so, like, it basically, um, attracts your head position.
So you just stick your hand out, and, um, it's always there, but, uh,
it's sort of, like, gradually always, like, moves to, uh, to be in front of you somewhere with a hand reach.
And, um, it could be summoned faster.
So if you point your laser at it, it'll, it'll fly to you, right?
You can catch it.
But otherwise, um, it'll, like, slowly follow you around, it'll, like, be there.
You're, like, get over here.
So that way, if you move really fast, and, like, it doesn't keep up with you,
you, like, turn around and be, like, come on.
And, uh, call it the belt, right?
Because what we'll do is have, like, a bunch of, like, tools there.
It's like a, it's like a tool belt.
But, yeah, you should be, I mean, I think you should be able to, like, minimize it.
Like, make it, like, this, like, a sphere.
Or you should be able to, like, open it up.
So where, like, you have, like, uh, so it's, like, big.
And then, I think, like, what I want to do is,
do, like, the XOK web thing, right?
Where I basically create a layer that allows my tool set to, sort of, like, interact with other pages.
So what would happen is that, uh, the proof of concept is that, uh,
I have to be able to take the WebXR controller API.
And I need to be able to send a signal from my page that is then to the server that sends back a signal to, uh, the page that I have loaded.
Uh, so that any page, uh, basically transmits to, it transmits to, it transmits the exit WebXR page to any page that's been loaded.
So, the way that would work is, um, yeah, so it has to send it really fast.
So you basically can send your controls, uh, maybe to a WebSocket.
Right.
Right.
But, um, so, yeah.
Okay, so then, so basically you have, like, the idea is, like, I create a layer that explores anywhere it's our space.
Right.
But it brings you, it brings, like, brings you with it.
So, but it brings the menu with it.
It brings your control system with it.
So it's like having, it's like having an intermediate layer.
It's like having a browser inside a browser.
Right.
So, like, let's say we want to go into Mozilla Hub.
Here's the thing.
Yeah, like, so, yeah.
So, like, what if I want to go into another website and take, like, photos, but save them to my layer?
Right.
So here's the thing.
It's like, what it would do is we'd have the camera so that it's going to capture that other canvas.
So, um, so, yeah.
So, okay, so you have, okay, so you, okay.
So, in a sense, you're controlling the camera in both canvases from one position.
But if you want to have a camera that captures another canvas, then you're basically going to move the camera updating thing from,
from your canvas that copies to their canvas, and you're going to move that to your controller, because that's where your camera is going to be.
So, so now your controller represents the camera in the other space.
And then you're going to, uh, so for camera, you're going to be capturing, uh, yeah, so that you need to look at, like, camera texture capture.
So, we'll take care.
Thank you.
