=== HISTORICAL TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: #1 Happiness Makeover w Brainwave Chart
First recorded: 2012-07-31T18:37:20-07:00
First-recorded evidence: YouTube public page publish timestamp; this was a live recording.
Original YouTube recording: https://www.youtube.com/live/onmppfN7NC4
Current YouTube publication: 2012-07-31T18:37:20-07:00
Transcript status: Machine-generated historical transcript; verify against the recording before quotation or publication.
=== END HISTORICAL TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Hi everyone. Hi everyone. I'm so excited to be here with you in wide world of Google. Yay for Google. Yay for Micah. Yay for Samian. Yay for the brain waves. We are going to get this happiness makeover started today. and I'm just so excited about it. So, Micah, we have come long and far to be here together. So, let's get into it. We actually have a lot to cover today and you're going to be um writing down a lot, taking a lot of notes. Are you ready for that? Let's keep Okay, I'm having a challenge

hearing you. Sounds like a technical difficulty. and you're frozen. I think the difficulty um is Wait, I can hear you now. Mhm. You can hear me now. Okay, maybe the video maybe the video will start working now. Um that would be nice. So yeah, I I think the difficulty uh Hi, Micah. Uh, hi Amy. That was interesting. Okay, we're off the air right now because it was your camera that was put us on air. Correct. No, we're on the air. Oh, we're on air right now. It says it's broadcasting right

now. Okay. Well, yep. Fantastic. All right. Back to your makeover. Are you ready? I can see you. I can hear you. Can you see me and hear me? Let's get this started. I've have an hour. Get this party started. All right, Sammy. I appreciate your leading. Yep, I can see you. Take notes. Great. Are you ready to take notes? Because I'm gonna go fast. Ready? Uh, okay. Let me uh get out my um Are we going to be drawing notes? I can use my keyboard if I help me type faster. Typing. Typing. Typing. You will be typing.

Uhhuh. And Have you measured yourself with isogenics? Have you measured yourself? Yes, I I measured myself. Yeah. Yes, I have. Fantastic. And did you order Happy for Life? Here's how to do it. Um, I I order Yeah, of course. And I started reading it. Oh, fantastic. Wonderful. Okay, so now it's time to start taking notes. This is your first happiness class ever. Woohoo. We're getting this party started. Starting the upward spiral today. Right now. All right. So, we're going to start

with the three types of happiness. Are you writing it down? You seem a little frozen to me, Micah. Yes, I can hear. Okay. And I see a frozen picture of you. Great. Now I see you. Fantastic. Okay. Ready? We're starting with the three types of happiness because it's important that we start on the same page as far as what does that word either mean because everybody has their own idea of happiness. So I'm going to orient you to how we're using the word happiness in the makeover. So we're

starting with the basics. The first type of happiness is called hyonic happiness. H E D O N I C. What? H E D V O N I CIC. Okay. Hideonic happiness is a positive emotion that occurs in the brain when something good happens. We get happy. Yay. Except something bad can happen right after that and that happiness is long gone. And so there's this a lot of times when I say that I'm a sustainable happiness expert, people seem to think that I mean I'm looking to sustain this positive emotion of the brain hydonic

happiness which is impossible to sustain. Now this is where people get stuck is in this hyonic happiness because you always want the next thing that's going to make you happy. Whether it's Doritos, a candy bar, a new pair of shoes, a new electronic device, a vacation, whatever it may be, you're in this constant pursuit of pleasure through hydonic experiences. Also, a lot of times people get stuck in this hyonic treadmill because they project happiness is going to happen in the future. that when I

achieve my goals, I will be happy. When I have the best partner in the world, when I drive the best car, when I have the best house, when I have the best job, when I live in the best city, then I will be happy. And in 2006, science showed that even if you do get all the things that you think are going to make you happy, you will become unhappy within 3 months. And so this constant pursuit of something external to you, a person, place, thing, or circumstance that brings happiness is never ever ever ever

going to sustain your happiness. What we care about are the other two types of happiness. Sadonic happiness is going to come and go no matter what. So I just assume it's there when it needs to be there. And we're going to mostly focus on the other two types of happy. So the second type is u demonic happiness. E u d a i m o n i e u d a i m o n i eu is good. Damon is spirit. I see is nature of nature of a good spirit which you have right Micah again. Nature of a good spirit. you have it. But yes, Amy, I do. I do have nature

of a good spirit. Uh yes, I I do, but I I can't um for some reason the video keeps uh interfering with with with the words you're trying to say. So, um what are the two words that Okay. Hadonic happiness and udemonic happiness. Hadonic is the positive emotion that occurs in the brain when something good happens. Udemonic happiness is udemonia that is more like a contentment or fulfillment in your heart. Right here heart this is not a brain based experience. This is a heartbased experience. Udemonia.

So, Aristotle actually introduced this type of happiness, udeonia. And American psychology caught up in the early 2000s. Yay. And there are four things that unlock this type of happiness. And they are your maps. Maps, meaning authenticity, purpose, and strengths. You don't have Okay. And then ude demonic happiness. But were you able to hear all of my explanation about h hadonic happiness? So yes, of hydonic happiness. Yes. Yeah. Okay. Okay. So, are you familiar with the terms hydonic treadmill and hyonic

adaptation? Sure. Okay. So, you heard me talk about it. And second, I'm watching your uh Yeah, I've heard you talk about it. Yeah. Okay. Right now. Today. Just now. No, not No, not today, but in a in a video you did with someone else. Okay. So, you didn't hear anything that I said regarding my lesson on hyonic happiness. Is that what you're saying in this makeover session? No, I heard the part about hydonic happiness. I heard that part, but I didn't hear when um the because you talk

about udemonic happiness and the the spiritual happiness. Most of that was just gone. It just I couldn't hear like I couldn't couldn't hear anything. So, do I need to give the lesson on hadonic happiness again? No, I I I picked it up when I watched it the um the first two times. Okay. So, udeic. Okay. So, hopefully you can watch this video afterwards and it recorded me giving my lesson on hadandic happiness. So, now let's talk about udeandic happiness. Okay. Sure. All right. Udemonia. EU D A I M O N I C.

Are you writing this down? I had to reboot my uh computer. Oh, the bra. Yeah. Everybody have patience with us as we are getting it all together here with two computers. Um anyway, I have another notepad so I can write it down. Okay. Well, I want to wait until your brain waves are back on there because that's the whole point of this. And what do you have any suggestions on how we can avoid this in the future? Um I think um let's see I think we should talk about that afterwards because it's it's um it's

kind of a lengthy explanation. Okay. So at least you have some ideas for solutions. It require it required um a lot more do their viewing experience instead of the inn out. Well, one thing is is we is uh we might be able to fix some of the bandwidth. Okay. What time is it? It is um 580. I wish there was a way to see at what point this is going to show up in the YouTube video. But um so anyway, the five when I said 528, that's when the graph started. So I will I will um locate that later. So

that um Oh no, we need to bring it back. Bring it back. We need it right here. Bring the brain. I think that's here. Bringing back the brain waves. Come on in, brain waves. Let's see you now. So here I think um my my inability to hear you um might have been exacerbated by the fact that we were doing two streams and using lots of network bandwidth. But I'm reconnecting and I will get the get that second screen going here in a second. Hopefully it doesn't mess it up mess up the call too much. And also you can do

you put the other one the brain waves on mute so it doesn't deal with the sound. Yes, I'll do that. Definitely. [Music] So, you're going to see that in Yay. You see it? Happiness boost. All right, we ready to get back to this. The udeimmonia. Yes. Um, great. I have a lot to check off on my list and we have to go fast. Okay. Okay. Ready? Umonia is a heartfelt contentment. E U D A I M O N I C. And there are four things that unlock this type of feeling in your heart. It's called your

maps. Meaning, authenticity, purpose, and strengths. This is an acronym. MAPS. Meaning, authenticity, purpose, and strengths from your heart. When you know what those are, when you are engaged in your meaning, authenticity, purpose, and strengths from your heart, then you will feel undemonial, which is sustainable as long as your maps are engaged. You can still have emotional experiences that are appropriate and be content at the same time. For example, I can grieve the loss of a loved one, however, still feel fulfilled

inside through having meaning and purpose in life, being my authentic self, and using my strengths. Okay. Do you have any questions about hydonic happiness or udemonic happiness, Micah? No, I got it. All right, great. Awesome. So now let's talk about cheronic happiness. Chair C H A I R O N I C. Cheronic happiness is how did you never you have zero questions. Um I was going to ask you how uh you came to know about these um three kinds of happiness but I will I will let you proceed because you have to get

through this through extensive study that's how through a lot of reading a lot of mentoring a lot of science that's why I'm here with you right now okay so cheronic happiness is bliss and joy. This is a feeling that comes from a connection to something greater than yourself. So when you feel connected to God or the universe or source or whatever it is that you want to call it, then you have the opportunity to feel joy and bliss. Woohoo! States of joy and bliss are possible. Eternal bliss is possible except it's a

long way once and think about it like these are the building blocks of happiness through empowerment, positive mood, resiliency, contentment and bliss. So bliss is unlikely to be experienced if you have had a lack of frequent positive mood. So, in the beginning of this makeover, we're going to be focusing on number one, Micah's empowerment over his own happiness, and two, creating a positive mood, and three, being resilient no matter what. And then we get to contentment, and then we get to bliss. So, this is like

advanced happiness, so to speak. This is Daly Lama type of happiness. This is the type of happiness where you can be happy even on your deathbed. So Micah and I are mostly going to focus on udemonic happiness and cheronic happiness. Do you have any questions about the types of happiness? Fantastic. Let's go into our action plan. Five steps to sustainable happiness. Everything that we talk about and do in the next 12 weeks boils down to these five topics. This is the yellow brick road to magic

and rainbows. Okay, these are the steps in how we're going to create your upward spiral. And they start with step one, the happiness decision. Okay. Step two, happiness boosters. Step three, happiness challenges. Step four, heartbased maps. Again, that's meaning, authenticity, purpose, and strengths. And then step five is faith, meaning trust. And now in parentheses, write down next to happiness decision empowerment and next to happiness boosters in parentheses, positive mood. And next to happiness challenges

in parentheses resiliency and step four next to heartbased maps contentment and step five next to faith/rust in parentheses. Bliss and joy. Woohoo. Getting happy thinking about it. Okay. So my deliverables to you Micah during our time together is empowerment over your own happiness, ability to create a positive mood whenever you want, resilient amidst challenges, development of deep inner contentment, sense of fulfillment, and states of bliss and joy. Sound good? That's good. All right. So, do you have

any questions about the five steps? You're free of questions. Okay. So, let's start with step one, the happiness decision. You basically have already made it. You know, you've been through a lot by now to get to this moment in time with me here. And so, we're going to just formalize it. So, I want you to go ahead and put your hand on your heart and look at yourself deep in the eyes because this is the most important decision of your life. Are you ready? Okay. Ready? You're going to repeat

after me. Look at yourself deep in the eyes here. This is important. Okay. I can see you if you're looking yourself deep in the eyes through this webcam. Okay. Well, let me um Yeah, that's better. I want you to look at yourself deep in the eyes. Got it. Okay. All right. Great. Hand on your heart. Hand on your heart. Yeah. All right. So, repeat after me. I, Amy, you say your name. I, Micah, do solemnly decide do solemnly decide to adopt the happiness decision to adopt the happiness decision by being happy now by

being happy now rather than react to my problems rather than react to my problems. I will use happiness to respond to them. I use happiness to respond to them. Forsaking all negative thoughts. Forsaking all negative thoughts. Regardless of circumstances. Regardless of circumstances. In all ways. I will in all ways. I will choose happiness. Choose happiness for the rest of my sweet life. For the rest of my sweet life. Standing ovation. You got a happiness boost. Was that a yes? Yeah, I did. All right, that was great.

I need some enthusiasm from you. You just made the best decision of your life right now. Sami is excited for you. This is important. The foundation. This is the foundation of the rest of your life. This is more important than you doing brain waves. This is more important than anything in the world because your happiness is the crux of it all. And so you putting a stake in the ground, making the happiness decision, deciding now to take charge of your own happiness. you're no longer going to wait around for

happiness to happen is so important. I'm so excited for you. And one of my mentors, Mayan Ketchian, who wrote that declaration that you and I just said together, he did a 27 minute video about his happiness decision. and he has maintained his happiness for greater than 20 years based on a 24-hour decision to commit to his happiness like you just did. So, I'm going to have you watch that video and as you are watching that video, you are going to print a piece of paper and in on the coach's council your

particular website with our work together. There is a document called the happiness decision nuggets by Dr. Bob. Dr. Dr. Bob is the one who wrote the book you're reading who has sustained his happiness for greater than 20 years. And Dr. Bob and Lionel are like longlost happiness brothers. I introduced them. And when Dr. Bob heard about this video from Lionol, he watched it and wrote down all of the important points that Lionel says in his 27 minute video. And this video is on my YouTube channel and it's also

in the area for you for my clients. So, it's important that you print out this document called Dr. Bob's happiness decision nuggets and have it in front of you while you're watching this video and make a check mark next to every single thing that Dr. Bob says in this sheet. And at the completion of this exercise, I will know that you know what it means to make the happiness decision because that's a big first step for a lot of people. Now, for a lot of people to take charge of your own

happiness, it does take effort. So, are you agreeable to watching the video with the Dr. Bob Nuggets? Oh, yes. Great. Okay. So, Micah, making this decision and sustaining this decision are two totally different things. Do you agree with me? Yes. So, we're going to sustain it through the following four steps. Most importantly, through creating a daily happiness practice for you. So you're going to have a new morning routine, a new daytime routine, and a new sleep routine. All based in happiness boosting

techniques. So we moving on from step one, the happiness decision, empowering yourself over your own happiness to two, creating a happiness practice day based on these scientifically proven techniques that will boost your mood whenever you want. So, I've created a formula of happiness boosting techniques that you are going to engage in every single day. So, let's start with the first thing you're going to do in the morning. So, write it down. This is my morning routine. And then you're going

to take notes. Ready? Ready? Okay. The first thing you are going to do every morning is wake up and smile. So when you put the corners of your cheek your lips to your cheekbones because of the muscular structure of your face it fires serotonin in your brain. So your brain has zero idea of why you are actually smiling. It doesn't need to know. It just knows that you are smiling. So go ahead and practice with me right now. Micah, give me a smile. It seems of course that your video is frozen at this

point. Micah, come back to [Music] Dr. Amy Dr. Dr. Amy, are you there? Dr. hear me? Hi, Micah. Hi, Amy. Okay, fantastic. I was just asking you for a smile. So, go ahead and put the corners of your lips to your cheekbones. Yeah. So, I want you to practice. Yeah. Give me those pearly whites. As you're going to do this every morning, you're going to get really good at it. Bigger, stronger, bigger, stronger. All right. Anyways, wake up and smile first thing in the morning. Okay. So, now let's talk about the

second thing. So, the second thing is you are going to say out loud, "Today is the happiest day of my life." Okay. This was taught to me by my mentor named Dr. Robert Mueller who was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize 19 times and he was former assistant secretary general of the United Nations for 40 years and in his retirement he wrote a book called Most of All They Taught Me Happiness. So you can imagine that if you are literally on top of the world for your whole entire career and you boil it down to most of

all they taught me happiness. That is a very grand statement. And he taught me that happiness saved his life in a Nazi death camp. It's because he knew about the power of intention and he knew that they could take any everything away from him except his happiness and he knew it was going to save his life. And on the wall every day he wrote down today is the happiest day of my life. So if that man can do it, can you do it? Yes. Yeah. So without setting the intention of today being the happiest day of your

life, are you ever going to have the happiest day of your life? Yes. No. It's going to be very challenging for you to have the happiest day of your life without setting the intention that today is actually going to be the happiest day of your life. So, I want you to get in the groove of setting the stage for each day to actually become happier and happier and happier and happier and happier by saying out loud, "Today is the happiest day of my life." Now, if you wanted to experience

happiness bounceback throughout the day, when someone says, "How are you?" You can say today is the happiest day of my life. And they are going to get automatically happier for you because you're having the happiest day of your life. And then most people are conditioned to have a reason to be happy. And so they're going to say, "Well, why is today the happiest day of your life?" And you are going to say because I made the decision. Your happiness activist moment saying I am

making it today. I'm making today the happiest day of my life because my happiness is in my own control because I did step one. I made that decision. All right. Okay. Okay. So, the next thing you're going to do is go to the bathroom and brush your teeth. And after that, you're going to do five Duchine smile push-ups. D U C H E N E. Duchain is a guy who studied smiles and he determined what was an authentic smile versus an inauthentic smile. And the difference is the crows feet here.

So, watch those politicians. So, what is the duchane smile push-up? Let's do some right now. Put your pen down. Lean back. Get comfortable. Close your eyes. Take a deep breath. One hand on your heart, one hand on your belly. Take another deep breath. Oh, one more time for good measure. As our pose, go ahead and drop your awareness into your heart center. Focus your attention in the area of your heart. Focus on creating an allloving, all nurturing, all accepting, open environment there, like you have a child

at your chest. Tell me when that's been achieved. Okay, allow your heartbeat to come through your chest to the palm of your hand and tell me when you can feel your heartbeat. All right, go ahead and ask to yourself to your heart, tell me the happiest moment of my life and wait for the response. Um, whatever you want. If you want to say, "Show me the happiest moment of my life out loud." Or if you just want to say it to yourself, it doesn't matter. Just tell me when the memory comes. Not

what it is, just that it's there. Yes, sir. Okay. Go ahead and bring that feeling into your body like it's right here and now. Just visualize that happiness from that moment in time right here and now in the center of your heart. Visualize this feeling getting warmer and warmer, stronger and stronger, fuzzier and fuzzier. Visualize this feeling moving up your chest, into your neck, through your throat, into your mouth, out the corners of your lips into a dish smile. Drop your awareness into your

heart center. Focus your attention in the area of your heart. Keep your eyes closed. We're still doing this. Bring that happy memory into your body like it's right here and now. Visualize that feeling getting warmer and warmer, fuzzier and fuzzier, stronger and stronger. Visualize that feeling moving up your chest, into your neck, through your throat, into your mouth, at the corners of your lips with that T-shaped smile. One more time. Drop your awareness into your heart center. Focus your attention in the area of your

heart. Bring that happy memory into your body like it's right here and now. Visualize that feeling getting stronger and stronger, warmer and warmer, fuzzier and fuzzier. Visualize that feeling moving up your chest into your neck, through your throat, into your mouth, out the corners of your lips, into a strain. Smile. Make it good. This is the last one. When awesome. Thank you. Cool. You get a happiness boost. Yes. Woohoo. So, we just did it three times. You're going to do it five times. You can use that memory or any

memory. Okay. So, now let's go to the next one, which is the laughter practice. Have you heard of laughter yoga or therapeutic humor or laughter clubs or anything like that? Yes. So there is a special technique that we're that stimulates natural laughter. Haha ho ho ho. He he he want me to spell that. Just kidding. Okay. So what we're going to do is repeat this over and over until we laugh naturally. One, two, three, go. [Laughter] [Laughter] You can laugh at me. All right. You got some work to do

on that one, Micah. I thought I was doing great. All right. So, you need to do whatever it takes when it comes to laughing. Whether it means watching a laughing video on YouTube or getting one of those laughter uh stuffed animals that when you walk past it has a sensor and it rolls around and laughs. Or you can just watch me laughing hysterically. Or you can um when if you're sitting there in front of the mirror going haha ha ho ho ho he he he over and over and it's not giving you natural laughter

then you have to that means that you're taking yourself way too serious and you need to laugh at yourself doing the laughter practice. Okay. Have you met a happy person who doesn't smile or laugh? Um, probably. No, you haven't. Smiles and laughter are the brick and mortar of your happiness. This is why part of your happiness practice includes a smile practice and a laughter practice. Okay, sound good? Okay. So, at this point, you may have noticed there's a little bit of a cheesiness

factor to the program. So, so I say that right before the next one. And this is the jumping exercise. And I understand that with the brainwave technology, it is not good to jump while you are doing this particular technique. So, we're going to put our minds together in the future to find out how to measure your brain waves while you're doing this particular technique. And so, I'm going to show it to you. However, you're going to do it. You can't do it right now, I believe, because that you

have the brain wave technology on. However, every single day, you're going to be doing this. So, I'm going to show you. You're going to stand up. You're going to put one hand towards the ceiling. And you're gonna jump up five times and say, "I am happy." Like this. I'm happy. I'm happy. I'm happy. I'm happy. I'm so freaking happy. Okay. Those are called five I am happy jumps. And so this promotes zest in your body. Cool. Zest is an important character

strength that you will be developing within your happiness. So what is zest? Zest is enthusiasm, excitement. What I asked you to give me more of earlier. Okay. So now okay this is for example for example Micah. Okay. Let's say this is without zest. You are sizzling some bacon in the kitchen without zest. With zest, you are sizzling the [Applause] bacon. You see the difference? I just want energy, exuberance, enthusiasm. That's what zest is. Okay, let's keep moving on. Then you're going after the I am happy jumps.

Yeah. After the I am happy jumps, you're going to sing a verse of your favorite song that makes you happy. I recommend singing a verse of zippid doo dah. Or you can sing a verse of any song that's way too cheesy for you. You can just sing a verse of any song that makes you happy. All right. And then the last thing that you're going to do in the morning is a gratitude practice which you have already begun I see. And so you're going to start doing it in this particular format. So uh you're going to choose if

you want a gratitude walk, jog, cup of coffee or cup of tea or shower or journal or shake. Whatever it is that you are going to do every single day, every single morning, I want you to turn it into a gratitude something or other. So, we're working this into your existing routine. Okay. Gratitude walk. Fantastic. So, from you're going to determine from point A to point B, you're going to be in gratitude. So before you even begin the gratitude practice, you're going to set the parameters of when you're going to

begin and when you're going to end. Okay. Yeah. All right. Also, you're never ever ever going to repeat. So you are I do recommend choosing subjects that you are grateful for. Like for example, maybe one day different aspects of living in San Francisco. Maybe another day different aspects of Yeah. doing makeover. What? I'm going to be great. I'm going to be great at this because I've never repeated. I said I don't even repeat my Facebook post. So I'm going to be great

at this. I'm coming up with something new every day. Fantastic. So my job is to expand your gratitude awareness here. Also, you're going to use the format I'm grateful for blank because it adds blank to my life. Okay. So, for example, instead of I'm grateful for my dog, I'm grateful for my dog because she adds a lot of unconditional love and companionship in my life. Do you see how we were able to access a deeper sense of gratitude with that? Yes, I do. Yes. I'm I'm grateful for

this tree because it adds oxygen to my Yes, exactly. Fantastic. High five, Micah. Thank you. All right. So, now this is your morning routine. So go through each one and say how long it's going to take you and then we're going to add it up at the end. So how long is it going to take you to wake up and smile? 5 seconds. All right, we'll do it five. You're good in five seconds. I'll rush I'll rush myself. Let's just start easy. 5 seconds smile. All right. Secondly, how long does it take for today is the

happiest day of my life? Um, at least two hours to get to that. So, that's going to take 10 seconds. Today is the happiest day of my life. That's 10 seconds. Sure. Okay. What's the next one? rest and do a duchang pushup. Yes. So that would be about two minutes. The next one is laughter yoga. Laughter, which I'm going I'm going to um uh enthusiastically say haha ho ho ho he he until I shut up. And that would be about maybe 10 seconds, 30 seconds, 20 seconds. And well, it depends on how seriously I'm

taking myself that time because, right, um, I have to laugh at myself. Let's just say 20 seconds. All right. So, 20 seconds of laughter, max. I mean, that's really pushing it. I'm happy with 10 seconds. Okay. Then, um, what's the next thing? Um, let's see. I'm happy jumps. I am happy jumps. Yes. Five. I am happy jumps. So, how long is that going to take you? Um, about an hour. 20 seconds. Okay. 20 seconds. Okay. Next. Next is uh my gratitude walk. Next is singing a song, your favorite song. Oh,

okay. Singing a verse of your favorite song. So after singing a verse of your favorite song. That's about I would say 30 seconds. Okay. And then the last one is gratitude which you determine from the walk. So, let's just start with one minute and work up from that. From when you determine point A to point B, set yourself up for success and just start with like one minute and go from there. And so, go ahead and add up those times. Um, including the gratitude block, including the including the one minute

of gratitude. Okay. It's only one minute of gratitude during the walk. Yes. We want to start fresh. Start easy for yourself. Okay. Well, that well um let me look at Gosh, that that should take um less than five minutes. Okay. So, I'm inviting you into this morning routine which is going to take you less than five minutes to establish a positive mood for yourself every single day. Are you willing to do it? Oh, yeah. Oh yeah. Okay. So, now let's talk about the daytime routine. The daytime routine is

going to kick in when you notice that your mood is going down from the morning routine. So, the morning routine mood is going to give you a couple hours of happiness. So, when you notice things are dipping, it's when you start the uh daytime routine. So, the daytime routine is five acts of kindness. And these don't have to be big acts of kindness. They can be small like you have a nice smile or pick Yeah. picking up garbage off of the ground or holding the door open for someone or letting someone in front of

the traffic or, you know, paying the $2 feet toll for the person behind you or complimenting someone on that color that they're wearing or the shirt that they have. There's also a random acts of kindness foundation that you can sign up with that will give you ideas for acts of kindness as well through email. Okay. Okay. So, after that, um, you're going to agree to exercise, which you've already agreed to. So, exercise is fulfilling part of the daytime routine. And as far as I know, we have

agreed that you're going to exercise one hour every day for the next 90 days. Woohoo. Oh, yeah. because yes. And you're going to eliminate the following words. No. Not, don't, can't, should, but, and try. Instead of no, you will say I prefer or I'd rather. Instead of not or any conjunction of not, you say what you can do. For example, instead of don't go on the grass, we want to say stay on the sidewalk. Okay. Mhm. And instead of should, if you want to say that for yourself, you say I need

to. And if you want to say it to somebody else, you say I recommend. Instead of but, say yes or. And we are eliminating try al together because the word try is an admittance of failure and you are going to succeed. You are succeeding right now. Okay. Any questions about that? Um you're free of questions at this time. Yes. Perfect. So, if you notice that you say one of those words, no, not, don't, can't, should, but or try, then go ahead and say what I meant to say was dot dot dot because you will catch yourself

saying it. So, correct yourself. So, in the process of becoming someone who speaks in positive language, you're there is a process there of awareness. And so every time you notice that you're saying no, not don't, can't, should, but and try, you need to correct yourself by saying what I meant to say was dot dot dot and reframe it in the positive. Are you agreeable to that? Okay. And remember that uh I'm on to the next thing now in the morning routine. And do you remember that inner colleague

creation book, that small memo pad that I asked you to get with a binding on the side? Yes. Yes. Um I uh I don't have um that. Um still need to get it. So would you get that today, please? Yes. Yeah. Thank you. Okay. So, every single negative thought that you have, you're going to write it down on the left hand side of the page in this book. And then you're going to write the opposite, the positive on the right hand side. This particular activity in the daytime routine is one of the most

important crucial elements. I need you absolutely 100% agreeable to writing down any negative thought that comes up in the moment. This is absolutely crucial. Are you willing to do this? Yes. Fantastic. So, this notebook is going to go with you wherever you go. It's going to be in your pocket. So, it is available to you at any moment in time if you have a negative thought, which you probably will. Okay, you ready for the next one? I'm ready. Living in the moment. So, from now on, you are going to be

working on living in the moment, and you're going to use my five steps to living in the moment to achieve this. Need a water break. So, these So, step one. So, I want you to take notes on the five steps to living in the moment. Step one is be aware that you're out of the moment. That means that you're thinking about something in the past or the future. Step two, you have three options. The first option is a fishing line. Second option is a raft. And third option is a fireplace. So I'm going to

lead you through a series of visuals for each one. the fishing line, the rafts, and the fireplace. You're going to tell me which one made you happier. Okay? So, go ahead and close your eyes and visualize yourself with a fishing line that's cast far away. That fishing line is a symbol of your thoughts that are in the past or the future. You're going to reel it in back to the here and now. When you can see the end of the fishing line, open your eyes. So that's option one. Option two is

close your eyes, visualize yourself on a beautiful day in a beautiful lake next to a raft and see yourself get on top of the raft and feel the sun's warmth on your body. When you can feel the sun's warmth on your body, open your eyes. That's option two. So, now we're going to do option three. Close your eyes one more time and visualize yourself sitting next to a fireplace. And feel the fire's warmth on your body. When you can feel the fire's warmth on your body, open your

eyes. Okay. Which one do you like the best? Option two. Which one? The raft. The raft. Okay, perfect. Okay, now I'm going to move on to step three. Step three is check in with your senses. I'm touching blank, tasting blank, seeing blank, smelling blank. Avoid the word feel. I'm touching blank, tasting blank, seeing blank, smelling blank, hearing blank. You want to make this easy. I'm seeing the clock in front of me. I'm hearing the noise on the street. I'm tasting nothing. I'm touching my

hand. I'm smelling nothing. And now we're going to go to step four. Step four is ask your heart what is the gift in this moment? And then you ask anything else and continue to ask anything else until your heart says no or is complete because you want to glean as many gifts as possible in your life in every single moment. We're going to do a demonstr we're going to experience this together in a second. And then step five is gratitude for the gifts in this moment. I'm grateful for blank gift. Fill in the

blank from step four because it adds a blank to my life. Okay. So, now we're going to practice. I'm going to lead you through this. Ready? We're going to start with step two. Are you ready? Okay. Close your eyes and visualize yourself on a beautiful day in a beautiful lake next to a raft and see yourself get on top of the raft and feel the sun's warmth on your body. When you can feel the sun's warmth on your body, open your eyes. And check in with your senses to yourself. Just open your eyes are

open. I'm seeing blank. Eyes are open. I'm seeing blank. I'm smelling blank. I'm touching blank. I'm tasting blank. I'm hearing blank. Okay. I am uh I'm seeing uh my notes. I'm facing nothing. I'm smelling nothing and hearing. Okay. And now go ahead and close your eyes. Take a deep breath. Put your hand on your heart. Take another deep breath and drop your awareness into your heart center. Focus your attention in the area of your heart. Focus on creating an allloving,

all nurturing, all accepting, open environment there. Like you have a child at your chest. Tell me when that's been achieved. Okay. Allow your heartbeat to come through your chest to the palm of your hand. Eyes are closed. And tell me when you can feel your heartbeat. Feel it. Great. Okay. Go ahead and ask to yourself, to your heart, what is the gift in this moment? and wait for a response. I have it. Okay. And say it out loud and keep that state. Okay. Um happiness. Happiness. Keep your awareness there in your heart and ask

again is there anything else and wait for the response? Is there anything else? Okay, bring your awareness back to me. I'm grateful for happiness because it adds what to my life. It adds happiness. So, say the whole sentence. I'm grateful for happiness because it adds happiness to my life. I saw a big smile there, my guy. Did you just get a happiness boost? Yes. Woohoo. You just came into the moment. This is amazing. Here you are. Here we are together. Yes. In this moment time. So you are going to go through

those five steps to living in the moment 100 times a day. That equals 100 times a day. 100 times a day. That equals once every five minutes for an eight hour time period. So, I do have clients who purchase a watch minder, which is a vibrating watch that goes off every five minutes if you want. You also probably have a mindfulness app on your phone that can be set for once every five minutes. And what's going to happen is that eventually as you're doing this, you are going to arrive in the now where you no

longer will have to go through these five steps. Also, you're going to get really good at going through the five steps. We just did it rather slow. However, you're going to work up to it where you can do the five steps very, very, very, very, very, very, very fast. So, I want you to challenge yourself with how fast can I go through these five steps. Okay? So, every week I'm going to ask you about how many times a day you're going through these five steps of living in the moment. Knowing

that my direction is 100 times, you're going to have to tell me how many times a day you're doing it. Also, every week I'm going to ask you what is your ratio of positive to negative thoughts? And you're going to tell me. And every week I'm going to ask you what is your percentage of time you're living in the moment. And so I'm going to monitor these um numbers to make sure that we're moving in the right direction week after week. My goal is to get you 100% positive thinking and 100% living in the

moment. So that concludes the daytime routine. Do you have any questions? No. You're free of questions. So this so I want you to put two big stars next to inner collie creation writing down every single negative thought and converting it to positive and put a star next to five steps of living in the moment 100 times a day. So those two are very very very very important to me. These two are my sink or swim activities with your success. So, I'm going to be very very mindful of what your answers are for

those particular activities. Is that clear? Fantastic. So, now I'm going to tell you the sleep routine. The sleep routine, you're going to write this down. Starts off with five recounting your five acts of kindness. And then you're going to ask yourself, what are three good things that happened today and how did I contribute to them? And then right before you go to sleep, you're going to read to yourself the positive thoughts of the day from your inner colleague creation book. And I'm calling any negative

thought or negative self-t talk inner critic and any positive self-t talk or positive thought inner colleague. So my goal is to convert the inner critic entirely into inner colleague to obliterate all negative thoughts so you can have positive thoughts all the time. This is very very important. You have any qu that's the end of the sleep routine. Do you have any questions? You're free of questions. Remember you're discontinuing the youth. No. Okay. Perfect. So what we want to do is say what is the truth. What is in

alignment with the truth. So I'm free of questions is more in alignment with the truth than no. So instead of negating the reality that's given to us, we are creating a reality that's in alignment with the truth. Okay. So again, every week I'm going to ask you to grade yourself. What is your grade for the morning routine? What is your grade for the daytime routine? And what is your grade for the sleep routine? And what am I going to be wanting to hear that my that I brought my agent?

Yeah, that's right. Double high five, Micah. All right. Do you have any questions? So this week you're going to be basically mastering these routines. On the coach's council, there is a protocol sheet that you can print out and make check marks next to every single activity with the date. And this is going to help you maintain your um new habit of creating this happiness practice. So I recommend using the protocol sheet. Also, if you so desire, there are also handouts of the morning

routine, the daytime routine, and sleep routine on the coach's council. You can print those out and put them around you so you can remember. Do you have any questions about the routines? Yeah, you're free questions at this time. Perfect. Okay. So, I also want to let you know that Excuse me. I need some water again. So, step one is the happiness decision. You're watching the video while you're looking at the nuggets. Step two is the routines, the happiness boosters that we just spoke

of. And then step three is happiness challenges. So if a happiness challenge occurs and you want to be happy except you are unable to be happy for one reason or another and you want to know how, then call me or text me and my job is to get you happy by the time you hang up. If for some reason you do not want to be happy, then do not call me. However, I would say that that would be going against our work together of sustainable happiness. So the learning that can happen in the present moment while you are unhappy is actually

priceless. It looks like you're confused. I wasn't sure if you were joking, but obviously you were joking. No, I am available to you for happiness challenges. And so if you are having a moment where you are unhappy and you want to be happy, call me, text me. I will answer as soon as I possibly can, unless I'm sleeping. However, remember if you do not want to be happy, then don't contact me. But again, I want to underscore that if that is the case, we are going against our work together, which is upward spiral

sustainable happiness in a way. Okay, so I want to come into closure. Thanks for laughing at my jokes. I appreciate it. All right. So, next week we're going to do Raiki level one, attunement. So, I'd love it if you could read the Raiki book between pages 1 and 42. And on page 42, there is a subcategory called Healing Others. And you're going to stop reading right before that subcategory. Also, before the next session, stay away from eating heavy foods prior to the atunement. And we're going to need a

candle, glass of water, a place for you to lay down, and a wooden chair. That couch may be okay to use as it would. Um I'm trying to remember. Okay, we'll solve this create a solution by next week and I have to go. So, I'd like to end with our session with what did you most enjoy about our time together? Well, that we we uh finished the call successfully. So, that's that's great. I know you have 11 more to go. Yeah. Great. Well, we finished it. You're going to start your happiness practices.

I'm excited. Thank you everybody. If you have questions or comments, you can join me and Micah on Facebook and Twitter and um we will post the information somewhere or visit our website. Mine is happiness makeover. His is neomcycle.com. And Micah, when are you going to be uh talking about your experience in the makeover? In a couple hours or at 8 o'clock tonight for 30 minutes. Yes. Yeah. And if anyone's not 8 o'clock is when people like to be watching some their TV show or at a dinner or

something, but you can watch it tomorrow. It'll be uh it'll be post on YouTube if you miss it. So, it's Yeah. 8 o'clock. 8 o'clock. So, that is in one and a half hours. Michael will be here talking about what he thinks about the first day of the makeover, what he has ahead of him, if he thinks the activities are good and so on. So, um, let's end. Thank you so much everybody. Thank you Micah. Thank you Samia. And we'll see you next week five o'clock on Tuesday here on Google+.

Thanks, Micah. High five. Go get him, Tiger. Bye, everyone. Byebye.


#1 Happiness Makeover w Brainwave Chart
