=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: a0264y Doc Z part 2 Reality Video App
First recorded: 2021-06-17T03:06:16.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/2c4a64b4-f920-4459-bc80-cce658d50284
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
There's different things that I can offer in terms of features. Just based on how those other companies work and what services they offer. But I'm like inherently operating in a live sort of game engine environment. It's not necessarily based on pre-designed animations. Although it could be.
I just, uh, my, I think my software is flexible enough and sophisticated enough that, um, it can be a little bit more dynamic for the real world.
What did you think of the video, by the way? Do you have any criticism? Dr. G? You're spacing out?
I was, when I was watching the video, I was already quite tired. So I'm gonna watch it again.
Okay, you're gonna watch it again. Okay.
It's just, it's just, um, I'm not in the, uh, I'm not in the mountains. It's like...
You're not in the, you're not, like, fully awake and in the mindset right now.
Yeah.
Yeah. I mean, you can, you can skim the video. There's not, there's a lot, it's like, it's, it's like five minutes and 39 seconds, but there's only about 40 seconds worth of material.
Uh, so you can skim it. Um, and, uh, it's just like extended out for no reason. I should have, like, like I said, I should have edited the video, cut it down to like 30 seconds and, uh, probably included a lot more features.
Uh, you're not, you're not, there's not a lot to see actually. So yeah, if you want to skim it, that's fine. Just watch it for a short, you know, the main point, the main point is that you're seeing, uh, in augmented reality, you're seeing that there is a, a video playing, there's 3D objects in the space, and they're sort of sticking to the space.
Not very well in some, in some instances, the, the tracking messes up. Um, but, uh, but you can also sort of get a visual sense for how a person, like, I actually, at some point in the video, I come around and jump up and say, it worked.
And I did that, like, and I think maybe halfway or three-fourths of the way through the video. And I think the point of that was that it kind of shows that you can integrate real people into the augmented reality video.
So, um, so that's really, those are the three points. One is, is there's a video playing in augmented reality. There's, uh, there's 3D tilt brush stuff in augmented reality. It sort of sticks to the environment. It sort of messes up.
But, you can put real people in it. And, um, beyond that, there's just, um, uh, there's a couple more layers that I need to add to it.
Uh, but, but, and then there's a whole bunch of other features that are missing from this video. Like, there's more, there's more stuff to show off.
Like, how you can, how I can move things around, how they can, you know, press next and previous and, and basically move the graphics around or hide graphics, call new graphics, um, you know, pause and play audio or video.
And there's, so there's other stuff to be, other layers to be added on top of this in future demos.
But, yeah, you don't have to rewatch it.
So I'm thinking, I mean, where would this be really useful when you're in an airport doesn't have any English signs?
Uh, translation app?
Huh?
A translation app.
Well, yeah, that's...
It's sort of like out of a, yeah.
Yeah?
It's out of the, it's sort of out of my, uh, wheelhouse a bit.
Uh, translation apps don't need to be 3D.
Yeah.
They don't need to be what?
They don't need to be 3D.
You just, you just, you just, the most, the, the major points of the translation app is that it, uh, it has, it accesses the video on your phone and it, um, it identifies the text.
It recognizes the text.
That translates it.
Yeah.
That's a, that's a completely different, uh, operation from what...
That's what I was about to have to get to reality.
Right.
I mean, it could, I guess it could, I guess it could be, but, um...
It is kind of cool.
Because you're looking at a sign that says something, which is what it's actually saying.
Yeah, if you could, if you could somehow, like, replace the sign with an augmented reality sign in the exact same place, uh, like, automatically.
Like, automatically translate the world around you.
So you just wave your phone and...
That's cool.
But, um, but I...
That's it, yeah, let's see that, see that, it's a whole nother thing that I'd have to build.
Like, the question is, what can I do with what I've already built?
Right.
And that's what I'm trying to think about.
Yeah.
But, like, when you walk through a museum, you can get an explanation about, about what you're looking at.
Well, you're going back to, you're moving back to, so there's, like, a whole history of augmented reality apps that didn't, didn't sell very well because people didn't want to download another app.
And also, the augmented reality apps are sort of, like, they drain your phone's battery.
So I'm really thinking that, that my best use case is in making, sort of, like, using augmented reality to make, make videos.
Right?
To just have, like, videos that just are, like, way better than, than, than other people's videos.
And then, and then, when, when I have videos that are way better than other people's videos, and, and I, and I have a million subscribers, then the, then the brands will say, oh, we want to, we want to give you money to talk about our companies.
And I'll be like, okay, well, maybe, maybe we can talk.
Hmm.
Okay.
I have to, I have to hang up, and we'll continue tomorrow.
Okay. Bye.
Okay? Yep.
Thanks, Micah. Sorry.
Sorry, sorry, sorry.
Good night.
Okay.
Good talking to you.
Likewise.
Bye.
