=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0008y Collective Sensation of oscillating sensor transmitter nodes in a brain array is the sensation of reality
First recorded: 2022-02-24T06:10:13.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/8d228789-389b-40ad-bc29-1424736c9937
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
A memory is a state change. I mean, a stored memory is a state change. So, we have, with the ton of frequencies, it's very regular, there's a lot of regularity to the states.
There's an, there's, well, the brain is chaotic, but what I'm saying is, like, there's a certain, there is a, there is a cyclic regularity, right?
So, the brain is a chaotic resonator in terms of brain activity, but the oscillation is, each oscillating group oscillates together at a relatively stable frequency.
And, groups that, so, some of the groups, you know, a group is basically, like, all the neurons that are oscillating with that oscillatory pattern.
But, you're going to have, some groups are going to be interacting with other groups, but they're not going to synchronize, they're not, they're not going to necessarily oscillate together,
or, in part, perhaps, perhaps, in part, because, because they can't, because an oscillation in one of them is, is too large to, um, to be copied by another.
Right? So, maybe you have to have, so, oscillators have to be within a certain range in order to, to, um, match each other's, um, dissipative energy.
But, um, but there's a certain amount of, um, but they can sort of, like, maintain, um, uh, sort of orbital, um, uh, it's like, it's like, they could have a sort of, like, oscillatory orbit,
to where, eventually, uh, two parts, uh, of, eventually, they're going to fire together at the same time, before splitting apart again,
and having completely different, uh, oscillatory, uh, oscillatory sequences, because, um, it's like saying that, eventually, they're going to link up for, for, for, but, because they're in a different orbit.
Um, so the, so the, so when they, like, so one will definitely go around a few times before it links up with the other.
And it could be because the other one is just much slower.
Right? Um, in, in that moment, you have, um, the possibility for, for, um, you know, that one, basically, like,
that's the point when they, uh, I know this is completely accurate, because the, so the idea is that if
you have oscillators, if you have sensors that can oscillate together, I mean, they're all, like, basically, like,
in lockstep. I mean, there's very short duration between one, something that happens to one
is perceived by all the others. Right? There's, there's, it's, um, it's a, it's a collect, the collective
of all of the sensors, all the sensor transmitters, is, is going to, they're, they're, because they're all, sort of, like,
um, closely in sequence, they're going to basically, like, it's like a, it's like a sensor that is
distributed over a larger area. Right? It's, um, you don't see the connections, but they're acting like
a single material. It's sensitive. Right? So they're also, like, a, a, a perturbation in, in, I'm sorry,
an irregular perturbation in one of them is going to create a rippling effect across, uh, the whole of
them. So they're going to have a signal that ripples across all of them, that causes all of them to
basically change their oscillatory signature by, by the dissipated amount. And the, and so, um,
um, yeah, so the dissipated amount is going to be very regular, and it's going to be essentially
multiplied across the entire collect, across the entire sensor. So it's multiplied in scale,
but it's, it's basically a very consistent, um, tempo-spatial pattern. It gets multiplied in scale
across, across, across, over the entire sensor array. But I suspect that it is sort of like,
it has to be the same signal. Right? But it's being, it is being multiplied in scale. So it's the same
signal, but as it grows in size, it's dissipating, um, so the pattern is growing in scale.
As it dissipates outward. Like a pond, like a ripple in a pond. Right? So it's like a ripple
in a pond. The whole pond senses it. But it's, there's a collective sensation, uh, of this
event happening. So there's like the ripple, and then there's several, several larger in size
ripples. And the, the network is, is, is, is recognizing all of them. So it's like every
sensation ripples throughout your whole being. Um, and there's a collective sensation. And
so that collective sensation is the perception of reality.
whole topic about how do you think that it might happen into the concept that we believe
that it might be a shared alrededor of the world. So that collective sensation, the voice of
