=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0002y electron bonds primer
First recorded: 2022-01-30T16:07:10.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/edb2ece3-0285-46c2-8f91-7a605511b0e8
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Right. Cause there's tons of different types of physics, but describing chemistry. Yeah. Would be anytime we start to invoke the making and breaking of bonds. So electrons coming together to interact, uh, so that basically electrons can be shared between different atoms or you have multiple atoms interacting to make bonds. So yeah, that's probably the best way of describing it.
Also just before moving on, like, uh, I, I heard that electrons can be shared three different ways between atoms, right? One is to, um, share one, right? And then one is to borrow one and that's ionic bond or something. Uh, do you, do you know about that?
Uh, yeah. Um, there are, there are kind of, okay. So what you're thinking of is like ionic and covalent bonding, right? So there's like, there's different types of bonding where you can basically say, um, okay. So the one you're describing, so ionic is probably the easiest to think about, right? So you can say, all right, I've got an atom of sodium and an atom of chlorine.
And because one, um, basically there's what's called an electron affinity or how much does a certain atom want to have its quantum levels filled. Uh, there's an energy associated with a stabilization energy that's associated with acquiring an electron.
So, for example, the chlorine is one electron away from having all of its quantum levels filled. And so, um, in order to stabilize it, it basically, uh, pulls an electron off of, um, another atom. And then that electron fully gets pulled onto the chlorine.
So now the chlorine gets this additional electron, the balance between the number of protons and the number of electrons is now unequal. It's no longer a neutral atom. So the chlorine has gotten a minus charge and then the sodium atom has a positive charge, uh, because let's say, so the sodium atom has gotten an electron removed.
And so basically because there's this complete delocalization or complete removal of an electron from the other atom, we call that ionic bonding because now one has a charge of a positive and the other has the charge of a negative and they become attracted through electrostatic forces.
But the more common or complicated, common and complicated type of bonding that occurs in, you know, in order to establish life are bonds that are, um, covalent. And what that basically means is, uh, it's a little bit hard to describe, um, in classical terms.
But the idea is that because the electron has particle and wave-like properties, it actually becomes shared between, um, multiple atoms so that if you were to write down what is the probability that it's on one atom versus the other, it would not be like it was in the sodium versus, uh, sodium chloride case where it's like the electron is purely on the chloride and you basically get a massive charge, uh, on the sodium
and a charge on the chlorine that basically causes them to be electrostatic repaired. In the covalent case, you actually get energy stabilization through the fact that I've delocalized this electron across, um, being shared between the two atoms.
It's kind of a little bit more, uh, one way to think about it is also like saying, um, uh, kinetic energy is actually a way of stabilizing. So you have potential energy and kinetic energy and in some sense, this is like a kinetic energy acting as the major stabilizing force.
The fact that the electron can move freely over larger area of space allows it to be shared. And then that's where you get these like carbon-carbon bonds, carbon-hydrogen bonds that allow things like amino acids and molecules to be basically prepared together and then ultimately, um, make the biological macromolecules that we care about and the drugs that we care about.
So covalent bonding is the most, I shouldn't say the most ubiquitous, but it's the, it's the fundamental bond that's necessary to build more complex molecules.
And then there's other types of bonding that we can talk about that's a little bit more nuanced, like hydrogen bonding, um, which is, uh, a little bit harder to explain.
And then there's metallic bonding, which is really another extreme where you have a bunch of metals coming together and then all the electrons really act like a, like a C.
They're more like a fluid. So there are kind of these three different regimes.
One is that the electrons in the ionic case are completely split apart.
So they're definitely on one atom or definitely on the other.
Then there's the covalent case where they're kind of shared in between.
And then there's the metallic case where they're, they're free flowing, just like a fluid.
They're wherever you want them to be.
So, um, that's a really kind of lame and gross description of all the types of bonding.
No, that's awesome. By the way, this showed up. I think you two never met, but this, uh, Alec, uh, how are you?
I'm doing good. I'm great. I'm glad to join this conversation.
Yeah, we kind of started, we dived, uh, we were just talking, okay, so atoms come together to form molecules and then that's just kind of turns into chemistry.
Alec was explaining how some of the different bonds work.
But Alec, you said, uh, something that, um, you said some bonds, like some bonds between atoms are life.
Like you said, you said something about life.
And then while I was reading, I also realized that there are some, uh, like not all molecules are made equal, right?
But there are some that is more essential to life.
So what's, what's the difference?
Um, sure. So I guess probably the point that you picked up on, um, is the, what, like what I was saying that basically covalent bonds we typically find in biological systems are where we associate with life.
And the reason for that is that, um, covalent bonds, because they're so strong, um, and because there's this delocalization of electrons, uh, allow us to make strings of molecules.
Meaning that, like we were originally talking about like, well, what is the distinguishing feature between physics and chemistry, right?
And you, it's, and I was saying, it's really hard to distinguish where physics stops because it doesn't, but where would you start to say, okay, that's chemistry.
And the answer was, okay, whenever you start to see bonds, and then the question is what type of, what is a bond and where do you see it?
And really that has to do with how electrons are shared between atoms.
And then there's many different ways that you can share electrons between atoms.
And one of those types is covalent bonding, where the electrons are shared or distributed in, in almost an equal fashion, uh, between different atoms.
What this allows you to do is kind of chain link all, a bunch of atoms together to make things like polymers, which, um, are basically, you can think of, you know,
you have, um, even very simple, uh, um, multi-atom, uh, configurations like propane, ethane, butane, right?
Where there's multiple carbons being strung together to make what's called a hydrocarbon.
Then you can turn it into nitrogens and oxygens and all these different appendages on it.
And because you can link all these different atoms together, um, you can make chains of all different types of oxygen, nitrogen, um, hydrogen, and carbon.
And this, these long chains of these composite, what we call organic atoms, as you basically build them all together and you get this big string, that allows them then to fold into complex structures.
And so depending on how the atoms are bonded together, they can make DNA, uh, they can make proteins, they can make RNA.
And these different configurations all end up leading to different strings, which all, because they're all arranged differently, lead to different 3D architectures.
And then it's those 3D architectures that actually allow, um, all of these molecules, which are made of the same types of atoms to do their unique functions.
So one way I think about this is, um, if you're standing at the edge of a Harbor and you're looking out at this Harbor, you'll see yachts, you'll see sail ships, you'll see dinghies, you'll see all different types of boats.
And what, if I asked you, okay, well, what's very common about all the boats and you say, okay, well, they're all made of the same composite material.
And so I would say, okay, yeah, like all of life really is made of the same, like organic atoms, oxygen, nitrogen, um, um, carbon and hydrogen.
And, but then you'd say, okay, well, what's, what makes the ships different in terms of how they function?
And you would say, oh, well, how the ship is constructed, right?
Like how the engine is put in a particular position, how, how many stories it has, all of the different things that come from the architecture and how the composite material is arranged allows it to do that unique function.
So just like in life, um, in nature, uh, we, nature arranges all of these different strings of atoms together, even though they're all the same types of atoms, it's that arrangement of those atoms in 3d that actually allows them to do complex functions.
So that's really interesting.
So the way I understood it, so as, if the atoms come together, they form some kind of a structure first, and then there are the ends of the, ends of the structures where kind of maybe let's say, you know, layman's terms, they're sticking out.
And if any electron is available to form additional bonds, if those ends, then we could say literally that those are the business ends of the molecule.
Is that fair?
Uh, yeah, maybe I'll, maybe I'll just refine it a little bit.
Cause like what, what you're getting at is totally right.
Right.
At the ends of the strings or at different areas where there are kind of, uh, different, what I'll call potentials or abilities for the electrons to interact or form bonds.
Those are definitely the business ends now, because the business ends are not just the ends, meaning that they're not just the ends.
If I, if I basically pulled, um, the way I kind of like to explain it is Legos, right?
Like if all of, like I was saying all of these molecules, so every single molecule is a Lego, I can basically build all the Lego pieces into complex structures.
And then that structure does something.
And I said, okay, I, let's say I build a Lego structure and then I go, well, where's the business end?
And you're right.
You would say, well, like the edges, that's definitely true.
Um, but it's a little bit more complicated than that in terms of where we're actually going to form bonds.
Because like I was saying, the electrons in covalent bonds can be distributed, meaning that they don't have to exist in a single place.
They can be delocalized.
And so depending on how the molecule folds up or how the Lego architecture is arranged, the electrons could be heavily put in one end or the other.
But more often than not, these molecules actually form so that in the center of these systems, there's a high propensity to make and form new bonds.
So, um, yeah, that's, it's, it's a little tough to do without visuals.
But one thing to say is basically, you're right, you can always form bonds at the ends, um, but because these things can form complex structures, sometimes the business ends can be somewhere else.
They can be buried in the middle, let's say, of the, of the, like, big Lego structure.
You could say, like, the inside of the Lego structure is actually hollow, and that's where all the electrons are hiding.
And if molecules can get into that hollow part, then they can make bonds and form bonds and stuff like this.
So the size and shape also plays a part in it.
Totally.
And this is, and, and this is really what, uh, allows biology to be so complex because not only can I take the same, like, red Lego, blue Lego, green Lego, stack them all together, but I can change their order.
And if I do that with hundreds of thousands of Legos, you can imagine that you get many, many different permutations of sequence, and each unique sequence can actually fold into a unique structure.
And then, actually, what's really crazy is, in some cases, the structure is actually dictated by the environment, which means if I let the Lego city, like, if I took all of those Legos in a particular order, like, red, green, blue, red, green, blue, over and over again, it would fold in, it would, like, let's say, automatically fold into some big cylinder.
But then, if I did the same thing in, let's say, oil, it'll fold into a totally different structure.
So, it's not only the fact that there's interactions between all of the Legos themselves, but it's also the fact that they're in a cellular environment, in a, in an environment that's actually pushes them into a structure.
And this structure then allows them to do a function, which is one of the most remarkable things, right, that, that these things ultimately do fold into a structure time and time again, and then they can do all of this chemistry that is necessary to promote biology.
All from the fact, like, that it's governed purely by physical law, right, saying that it's of lower energy cost to go down this hole to basically make a bond, right, and then when you break a bond, you release a bunch of energy so you can do work somewhere else.
So, this principle of making and breaking bonds is all dictated by the energy that's described by physics, and then, but ultimately leads to this really complex life forms, obviously.
So, yeah.
So, just to conclude the whole group.
Why, then, so then, what is so special about amino acids and proteins?
I know you almost literally kind of explained by saying it's the shape, but is there anything else to say other than what you said to explain the properties of amino acids and how they form proteins?
Sure, sure.
So, the, yeah, so I do have a tendency to rant or meander, so always feel free to, like, just cut me.
But, yeah, I mean, the real special property is that the protein, like, at least proteins that, again, they're not the only macromolecule that dictates life.
There's DNA, RNA.
There's also tons of small molecules that are more complicated or more simple, but they do complicated things.
But proteins in particular are particularly masterful at moving protons and electrons around in a very controlled manner.
And the reason that's important is because anytime you talk about energy, energy exchange, energy motion, right, you think about it for your car, right, for, like, combustion, or you think about, you know, solar energy, solar panels, or whatever the case may be.
The real question is how do you move energy from one place to another so that it can be distributed and do work?
And really, in biology, that comes down, in many cases, to how do you move the fundamental units of charge, protons and electrons.
And amino acids, and because they have the ability to move electrons and protons around, and their 3D architectures dictate how they can do that, that type of control to make and form bonds is what makes them so powerful.
The fact that they can form into a structure, and this structure allows them to do unique reactions, meaning rearrange protons and electrons, and move them around in a specific way to either make new molecules or transfer energy that gives them this unique ability within the biological, like, in nature, totally.
So, it's this, this ability to do energy transfer and control how molecules are made and formed.
Oh, but, before, uh, saying what, this and Frank think about all this, I thought, so there are free-flowing protons?
I thought protons exist in the nucleus, or am I?
No, no, no, no.
So, um, protons are everywhere, um, and you can think about it like water.
So, on water, right, there's this property, uh, known as pH you're probably familiar with, so acidity, right?
So, there are, in your body, which basically has a way of buffering what is the acidity or the level of acidity in your blood, for example, is, excuse me, all about the balance of how protons are controlled.
So, on water, for example, we typically think of two protons, but you can also add a third proton on, and then you get what's called H3O+, this is known as a hydronium atom, or you can remove a proton, so it's just an oxygen and a hydrogen, and now it's what's called a hydroxide.
And so, protons can actually be exchanged, moved around, and many biological processes are actually driven by the fact that in membranes, on cells, there are these things called proton pumps, and what they do is they actually take protons off of molecules or off of water, and then drive protons from one side of the membrane to the other.
So, because protons have this positive charge, then on one side of the membrane, they don't take it from the nucleus, right? Sorry, I...
Oh, no, no, no, no, no. Well, the nucleus is a big and complicated thing, right? Like, in biology, the nucleus is filled with DNA and lots of different things. No, so we're not talking about that.
We're just talking about water inside a cell, like, you can think of it just like a, the cell is a bag of water, which it's definitely not. It's way more complicated than that, but you can think about just inside the cell and outside the cell, there's water.
Right? And then you can basically change, there's a pH difference or an acidity difference on the inside and the outside. And that inside, that, that, all of those protons can be derived from water. And there's many different things that control this, but protons are definitely readily available, and we move them around all the time for energy.
So, essentially, then, those molecules are important because they are essential to moving charges.
That's right.
Charges, negative and electron, positive and proton.
Yep. And the movement of charges to particular locations is what allows life to exist, right?
The controlled motion of energy from one place to another and then that energy's ability to do work is the thing, which are all basic physics principles, right?
I can move things around. I can move energy from place to place. The interactions, basically, and how much energy is available in that place dictate how much work I can do.
And that's really what, you know, life is about. It's about basically saying, okay, how do I take this source of energy, like these molecules, oxygen, glucose, whatever the case may be, and how do I rearrange it so that I can extract the energy from it to do other processes and do work?
And just to clarify, there's nothing fundamentally important about the nature of the charge or anything.
No, nothing special.
These charges, they just allow different attachments to work or different structures to come together, and that's why.
That's right. So there's nothing special about the electrons or protons. Everything is about how they're being placed in particular locations and how those 3D architectures we were talking about before make it so you can create what are called like gradients or ways in which the electrons and protons can flow either into different molecules or into different locations so that this work can be done.
So nothing special, no magic.
Yeah, right on.
At this, we have anything to add, say, any question, please go clear and after you, please pray.
Sure. Thanks, my mom. Alec, that was a really nice explanation. I just want to throw in like the Van der Waals force also probably place and how life actually is a sculptor.
I think like probably.
There are, you know, some cellular mechanisms that actually employs Van der Waals force to essentially function, even though that that's typically not not a bond, but do you consider that to be like as essential as the ionic bond and the covalent bond that you mentioned?
Because I I personally feel like, you know, life is just a composite of all all types of chemical interactions that can be basically employed. That's that's basically my question and also like a comment.
I think like it was like a slip of a thumb, but I think you said something like you mentioned something about polymers and I'm saying that methane and I think so these are alkenes, but polymers can only be formed from alkenes and all kinds, I think, if I'm not mistaken.
But yeah, I just wanted to mention those.
Sure. So that's a great point. So I think maybe to address that clarity, that's the first part about, okay, any all I have to do to define a polymer is to define a monomeric unit so that can be some carbon hydrogen unit.
Then once I stack those together, that makes the polymer. So I could in some cases argue that things like butane or ethane are in fact polymers depending on how I define the fundamental monomeric unit.
But I definitely agree, like to your point, because that is something that should be clarified.
But I could also define, you know, DNA, which is a nitrogenous base that has nitrogen and oxygen, and then make those the monomeric units and as long as I stack those together.
But you're right, I was trying to make the illustration that we can take a simple building block, make copies of it, and then as I make more and more copies of it, I get these long strings and then these long strings form together.
But to your point and question, yeah, you've actually hit on the thing that I care about probably the most, but the most complicated thing to convey.
Not necessarily Van der Waals forces, but something kind of tangentially related, which is hydrogen bonding.
Hydrogen bonding, which is how, for example, water can interact through its dipoles.
And these very weak interactions are super important, right?
Covalent bonds are not great in terms of life because, I mean, they are, they're essential to get these really long lived structures, but they're super stable, right?
They're not going to change.
And life is super dynamic and the ability to move and change spatial organization and structure all depends on the ability to be weakly interacting.
And like you're maybe alluding to, right, thermal, this is a big thing from physics, right?
We have to think about how much energy is actually available around us in the environment.
And so for context, right, thermal energy, the energy of the air, the temperature around us, or body temperature even, is not actually that much energy when it comes to bonds being broken and formed.
Like it's, it's very, very weak.
So it can't break covalent bonds in the air, right?
So they're super stable because there's not that much thermal energy around to break them.
But hydrogen bonds and Van der Waals forces, because they're so weak, they can be broken spontaneously, which allows this, these complex molecules to undergo rearrangements with the energy available just in the environment alone.
So I totally agree with you.
And I think that Van der Waals forces and hydrogen bonds are really critical, but are very, very difficult to model because they are quantum mechanical in nature.
And so it makes them quite challenging to appreciate given like how difficult it is to already model the things that we understand relatively well, like covalent and ionic interactions.
But yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, I completely agree because, you know, like you just mentioned, like these, the activation energy required to break a covalent, I mean, the hydrogen bond and Van der Waals forces substantially lower.
That makes them to kind of, if you have like some kind of, you know, equilibrium in the reaction, it can go both ways.
It can be reversible based on, you know, definitely like, you know, you need some, some additional catalyst and the energy requirement will also dictate which, which direction the reaction is going to go.
But yeah, that's a great point.
Yeah, yeah, I think, and I think one thing you hit on there too, is the fact that these things can be transient and change during the course of the reaction, right?
Or upon addition of a catalyst or something like this, where the fluctuation in the strength of these forces can be higher in the middle of or lower than the thermal energy, which allows them to allow to say, how long can certain structures be stable, which is something I think we don't understand very well.
No, that was awesome.
No, that was awesome.
So, could you say it again?
What is that?
Which part?
Oh, Van der Waals.
Yeah, Van der Waals.
That's like a, like a threshold or?
It's like a, it's, it's a weak force that allows like neutral molecules to actually be attracted to one another, but it's very, very short range.
So it's like, basically when atoms get really close to one another, they'll exhibit this force on each other.
Um, but yeah, it's a very weak force.
Um, and it, but it's a, it's a kind of attraction that can occur, uh, between atoms.
Um, that is like a bond, but it's like an interaction.
It's, it's just very weak and transient.
And in order to fully describe it, you have to use quantum mechanics to accurately kind of make a picture.
We can write down equations that approximate it, but it's kind of challenging to describe what it is without, um, that understanding.
So, more or less, it's a, a weak, attractive force between neutral atoms or neutral molecules.
Uh, yes. Uh, uh, uh, that's, uh, very, uh, uh, important that, uh, a point that you, uh, I would just, uh, pointed out.
There's a thermal, uh, uh, the temperature, the thermal energy that, uh, functioning as, uh, reference energy for, uh, what, what happens now.
Right. So, which is, uh, very crucial, uh, in this, uh, uh, uh, environment.
Uh, I, I, I mean, uh, uh, uh, a memo.
This is a great, uh, room that you, you, you, you're, uh, you're having here right now.
I mean, I was just, uh, you know, trying to, uh, get, uh, more, uh, co-hosts to, uh, tomorrow's room.
Well, with, uh, quantum photonics for the, where, uh, Alec will be the presenter and will, uh, you know, uh, apparently the, the, uh, Alex, like a fountainhead that has a lot of information, uh, to offer.
And I think this, uh, uh, conversation style will be okay.
Right. What will be something, uh, uh, uh, with Alec, right.
And, uh, uh, I mean, if memo can make it tomorrow, that'd be great.
I'll, you know, uh, please be, uh, a co-host if you have time and, uh, seven pieces.
Yeah, yeah, I'll, I'll try. Thank you for saying that.
Yeah, Alec is a treasure truck in mind.
Thanks. Um, yeah, yeah. So tomorrow, yeah, we'll talk about some more technical points.
Today was more of a memo asked about it, like a general discussion, so.
Yeah, if I may, I mean, I'll just, uh, make use of this as a, uh, warm up, uh, a room and then hope memo wouldn't mind.
So, uh, maybe I should do a warm up room like this, uh, in the future.
Yeah. Yeah. So, I mean, just from what, uh, you know, this discussion that, uh, started by memo and you that, uh, uh, made me understand that, uh, the water environment is actually very relevant.
Right. So it's by coincidence that, uh, the following week we'll be having, uh, rich, uh, sportsmen just have the, as a title of, you know, this, uh, subject to the, the water environment.
Let's do it.
Le 감
