=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0012y Personality - Thursday at 7-22 PM
First recorded: 2022-01-28T03:26:43.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/4c5fb17c-41ca-446a-acc1-264644c9ad49
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
I think I'm imagining my mind as a volumetric space. It's a volumetric video. Over here, this is a point cloud in my vision. It has audio cues. I can feel it. It has mechanical sensitive predictions for the properties and the orientation, the visual representation of the object.
And the sounds that might come from the orientation velocity of that object and its properties. And I have, like, but then I have, like, the whole, like, I imagine this, like, the representation of the room that I'm in, which is, the room is, like, eight by eight and a half feet, and so it's a small room, right?
Like, like, a, like, a bedroom, a small, a small bedroom might be 10 by 10 or 10 by 12. That's a small bedroom. Um, or a closet for some, for some people, like, they have closets bigger than that, right?
So this is a small room. So this is a small room. And I am, um, just sort of, like, imagining the four walls as being, like, a volumetric space that's sort of taking place inside my head. Like, somehow, this volumetric space is calculated by different, um, oscillating, uh, patterns in my head somehow.
And I'm, like, so I'm, like, I'm imagining now if I'm, if I'm changing my personality, like, I'm changing my gender perspective, or, like, I can imagine, I can play a role, like, I can play the roles of different characters, like, in a play.
But, like, what I imagine is that my framework for, that frames my personality attributes is, like, a physical structure that's sort of overlaid invisibly on top of the world that I see.
So that I could be reacting to the front half of that, um, personality architecture, or the back half of it, or the different, like, curve or shape of it.
Like, it could be curved, it could be carved, it could be carved, right?
Like, I can imagine this curvature, it changes my personality a little, right?
And I can, like, curve it, or uncurve it, curving, or uncurve it, and uncurve it, and flatten it out.
And I can, I can flatten out, like, my personality.
And it's interesting, because, like, what I'm saying is, like, I am sensing that there is these spatial patterns inside these sequences, temporal sequences, that are invisibly overlaid on top of my visual perception of reality, and my auditory, and my sounds I hear.
And, and there's, so, I would say it's, like, it is, like, um, experiencing reality is, like, experiencing, uh, multiple senses layered on top of each other.
And all the senses sort of corresponding to a space that's 3D plus 1D, right?
Three dimensions of space and one dimension of time to sort of describe what's happening.
Um, and, but, yeah.
