=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0011y Graph Signal Processing
First recorded: 2022-01-28T16:48:12.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/bd55abaa-2fbc-460b-8292-ec5b71442306
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Because the nature of signal processing in a 3D neural network, such as the brain, contains both spatial and temporal characteristics, the nature of sensory perception, of every kind of sensory perception, it's like a 3D plus 1D, a 3D plus 1D graph, or three blue, one green graph, that symbolizes
all sensory representations. Because there is a, I mean, this includes the graph, the graph nature, the 3D graph nature of signal processing that the, that's happening, in which each, each, each part of a network is, you know, like such as a cordial column, for example, is receiving signals from above and below to its left and right.
And, uh, and, uh, and from the front and the back. Like there is, um, there is, um, there's, uh, there's this sort of six-axis or 3D, uh, signal processing happening, um, in terms of like you need kind of like 3D dimensions of time, of space in one dimension of time to sort of calculate, um, uh, where all the traffic's coming from and going to.
Um, there is, um, there is, to, to, to, to a great extent, um, you know, there is, there is direction, right, to neurons collecting, neurons collecting information from some directions and then outputting, uh, some sort of signal to other directions.
But, you know, I look at cognitive neuroscience, um, and their description of neurons as, um, receiving and, uh, sort of receiving and, and, um, considering and then transmitting a signal as a sort of, like, mistaken distinction.
And that's not, it's not making a distinction between neurons that are, are, um, I guess, drivers, neurons that are, modulators, signal modulating.
And I think the key is that, uh, the key is that, um, you know, when you're looking at, uh, neurons in the hand that you, that, that, when, when you need signals to travel from long distances,
then you're going to have, like, you know, basically the, you know, sensory collection of signals.
And you're going to have, you're going to have, uh, those kinds of signals will, will be, will tend to be, um, more drivers or basically, um, like, they're passing the signal.
Which is kind of like what, what you think is happening in, in, in, in, uh, if you read just the introduction, it's like neurons are passing, they're just passing the signal from your, from your fingers, from your eyes, to your brain.
Uh, but, the thing is, like, at some point, the, the partial recognition, the partial and distributed recognition, or cognition, if you have a distributed recognition and cognition.
So, so for example, if the, um, if you have a network that is, like, collectively recognizing something through, has a, as, it's, it's going to dissipate through the entire oscillatory network of the brain.
But in order to, in order to, in order for that network to collectively recognize, then each part, each part of the network, when it passes through,
has to not only receive and transmit a signal, but has to receive and modulate a signal.
Otherwise, it, it's like, it would be as if it didn't contribute, as if it's, as if it wasn't contributing to the perception.
Right?
It's got to pass along its perception of the signal.
That's the key.
Otherwise, what's the point of it being there?
It's not adding anything to the calculation.
If it doesn't modulate the signal and pass on its, it's, it's perception to other neurons.
So, so, the very act of having a group of neurons that are going to calculate the meaning of a signal collectively means that, um,
um, as one neuron receives it and remembers, it says, oh, this is a pattern I remember, oh, this is a pattern I don't,
it must, therefore, pass on a modulated version of the signal that contains the reflection of its knowledge
that the other neurons that the other neurons can then pick up and crunch.
Because if it doesn't do that, it may, it, it, it might as well be replaced with, with, with a neuron that's not, uh, passing along the signal.
Thank you, for having me on the panel.
Thank you.
