=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0015y Function -
First recorded: 2022-01-22T09:06:10.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/1f479429-251d-47e0-97db-7bb2666fe08f
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Why are we keeping old memories? Well, it's like, uh, why? Um, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, um, your brain learned to create really long, uh, through evolution, really long strings of memories going back your entire life because of the survival advantage of it.
Like, you're able to make better predictions by incorporating old information with new information. The more information you have, the better your predictions, the better your life, the more your genes can replicate. What do you mean?
What's the lifestyle to keep old memories?
Um, well, you can totally decide. I mean, you can, like, decide, like, and you will, you will decide. Like, that's the thing. It's like, when you, if you think about it enough, then your mind will expand your awareness around it and you'll realize there's some stuff you can, like, oh, because you don't know it.
Or some stuff you don't need anymore. Or some stuff you don't care about anymore.
But how it's happening? I remember my memories, like, images, right? How I saw everything. How it's happening, the same image, I can replay again and again in my brain?
Is it, like, PTSD? Like, like, the same, like, whatever, like, yeah, the same image happening over and over again. You're the same memory and you don't like this memory or something.
Or, like, I just, how it's recorded with what? Is it, like, brain, like, SIM card?
No. Oh, okay.
I feel what you're saying. Yeah. Um, no, it's like your memories are stored in the connections of your brain.
So, when your neurons fire together, they form connections and those connections represent the patterns that have been learned previously.
They represent, uh, they represent, you know, sequences of patterns.
And neurons detect sequences.
They're coincidence detectors.
So, it's like, like, a coincidence is like, okay, if you see something and hear something, like, if you see lightning and you hear lightning, and they always happen in close proximity, right?
Like, sometimes, like, if it's really close proximity, that means the storm is right, right above you.
You see lightning and thunder at the same time.
But if you see lightning, because light travels faster than sound, and then a little while later you hear thunder, you know the storm is off in some direction.
It's not right above you. It's somewhere else.
And the greater the distance, the further away the center of the storm is from you.
And that's sort of like, I forget what the point is.
Remind me of what we were talking about.
About memories.
Yeah, memories.
No, the brain keeps thinking of those images.
Right, okay.
So, um, it's like, um...
It's like dreaming state, when we dream, we can see.
If you, if something is, if there's multiple correlations, like, if they're, like, like, your brain wants to...
Right, my friend says, um, your brain wants to maintain equilibrium.
Uh, it's because it's a physics-based system, and it has to, it has to intake, it's a dissipative system.
It has to intake, like, like a vortex, has to intake new energy, like food, and export increasing chaos to the surrounding environment, increasing entropy.
Because entropy has to always increase, according to the second law of thermodynamics.
So your body always has to maintain its equilibrium, or try to maintain life.
That it's happening at every cell level, and the whole body's made up of cells.
Mm-hmm.
Right?
And the same thing with organs.
It's all, it's about physics-based systems maintaining their equilibrium.
Ultimately, that's the driver of behavior, but then on top of that, there is, um, like, that is the, that's the, that's the basic driver of, like, what, it's like, why you need to eat every day, and why people need to go to the restroom every day.
Do you think people, in some way, don't, like, evoluting, evoluting, that people don't need to go to get energy?
They will sense different energy source.
Do I think people can sense a different energy source?
Get energy, not to food, just stop eating.
Or they still need these elements.
The, yeah, so, okay, so, like, imagine, like, a hurricane, right?
A human being is a dissipative system, right?
If a hurricane, if you cut off all the heat to a hurricane, it will die.
Because it is cycling, like, its existence is as a cyclone of reality.
So it's like, a human being is, in a sense, a vortex in reality, like a hurricane.
So we are reality spiraling, essentially, on some level.
That is a valid way to see it.
It's a valid viewpoint.
It's not the only valid viewpoint.
This is also real.
But that's another valid perspective on it, right?
And, yeah, so it's like, yeah, we are, in essence, like this fractal functional funnel, isomorphic.
I mean, it's, you know, when I say fractal and I say isomorphic, those are almost, those are, like, a self-repeating pattern, right?
But it's like, you have an isomorphic function and you have, like, an isomorphism of functions.
What I mean is, like, if you have, if you say, okay, you're going to describe how something changes over time.
Like, this is going to go from here to here, okay?
And so this is point A, this is point B, and how it goes from here to here is a function.
In this case, it's a movement, right?
That movement is taking something from here and putting it over there, but it is something that transitions from this state to that state, right?
And so that is, that's a function that means that something changed.
If suddenly you played music, that is your, that's the playing music function.
That means that somehow something happened where there was no music and now there was music, and what happened in between was the function.
Someone turned on the music, right?
And that's how programming is.
Like, programming is basically functions.
Like, okay, this button is now going to do this, so we write that in the language that the computer understands.
And, um, did that answer your question?
All right, I should get my shoes on.
Do you mind if I put the line right here?
It's okay.
And maybe you'll think of another question, too.
Who knows?
Thank you.
