=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0014y Fireflies
First recorded: 2022-01-26T18:19:30.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/294120ff-fa01-46d0-afd1-740f27042c10
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So let's talk about like choices and like how your brain is making choices. So I'm thinking about the plausibility of certain kinds of certain categories of thoughts appearing.
So you have ideas, like you might have an idea to, like I mean if you're an angry teenager, you might have a random idea to break a window. That could happen, right?
But, because for you, it seems like that's inside a range of possibilities. I mean I guess it depends on your life experience, whether other teenagers do those kinds of things or not, maybe, I'm not sure.
But, for someone out there, they could have a violent fantasy of something that they imagined they could do and then they decide, oh, you know, that sounds, that seems pretty stupid because the social consequences, the legal consequences, the civil consequences, those are all pretty high.
So maybe they think about that idea that was generated and they say, well, this, if I compare this to my whole, whole pattern of, of my, my, my predictions for the future and my predictions for like what kind of image I want to create for myself and the community, maybe this is a trashy idea.
Even if I could, even if I could get away with it, maybe it's an idea that might bother me for a long time that I did something like that.
Anyway, so the point is like, if you, if you have some, say that's a non-random, but sort of a, an idea that is kind of a mistake for you to be making, like when you could be doing something that actually makes you happier, which could be, you know, like washing a car versus breaking a window.
You know, those are two different sort of results you're going to get from those two different kinds of activities, right?
One of them, you might be, you might be, um, happier washing a car than breaking a window, right?
That might be a, there might be happier outcomes from, you know, the potential reputation of, of being a helpful person versus being a destructive person, right?
Or a kind person versus a violent person.
And anyway, so this is like, well, maybe, maybe the part of your brain that sort of like helps you to connect the dots to your bigger picture is disrupted because of a cancerous legion or something.
And, and, uh, you know, or maybe, maybe drugs and, and, uh, even altered brain state.
And, and so that the, the, the wisdom, the wisdom perspective doesn't make it to the top and you end up doing something stupid that you've regretted.
But the, but, but that's sort of like, yeah, well, if you can stop and think about it, the big picture and seek wisdom every day,
then maybe you'll avoid making disastrous choices.
But the part about like, okay, so why are they occurring in the first place?
Why are you getting, why do people, why does any, anyone get stupid ideas or ideas?
Or maybe you have positive intentions, but, but, but you have a stupid idea because it's, because you're not like considering another important perspective.
Like I saw, I saw someone on a, on an electric unicycle, it was a video, I saw a video of someone and they changed lanes in front of someone on an electric skateboarder.
And the electric skateboarder was moving fast and the unicycle wasn't looking where they were turning.
And the, the only, what happened was a collision where the electric unicycle rider smashed into the back of the person on the electric unicycle.
And at first, the video was suggesting that this was a malicious person on, on an electric skateboard.
But the, but we watched, but I watched the video several times and I read the comments and other people had the same idea that actually this was probably an innocent collision that the person on the electric unicycle caused.
Uh, because they just moved themselves into the path of a, of an oncoming vehicle without looking.
Right.
And, um, like you could tell from the video, this, this person changed lanes and they weren't aware of the surroundings.
It just, there's, it's hard to imagine someone would do either, either one of them would do that on purpose because they were both spent spinning and possibly hitting, and hitting the ground very hard and possibly becoming injured at that point.
Um, we didn't see past the, the, the broken video to see whether those people were okay.
They may have broken arms and legs and, or gotten sprains or fingers.
It's, it's really like having gone through an accident myself, um, it's just really sort of unsettling, uh, for their sake.
Like, I mean, I, uh, like I enjoy riding the electric unicycle, uh, still, even after I had, uh, an accident, but because it is, um, because it is very close to the risks of, uh, if you're driving at the same speed as a bicycle, the risk is about the same.
If you go faster than a bicycle, which is capable of, it can go up to 34 miles an hour, but I mean, I usually stay under, under 15.
I think, I think it, I've, I've, I've changed the setting so that it beeps at me at 16 miles an hour.
And so I don't really ever go faster than 16.
But if I did, uh, you know, then the safety rating is more like, uh, uh, uh, a motocross bicycle.
Okay, so I'm talking about electric, uh, an electric powered, uh, bike that is, um, faster than a, than a bicycle that doesn't have an electric motor.
So we're talking 34 miles an hour.
Now people, people think, well, because the bicycle has two wheels, there's something, they say there's something else that gives you some sort of, I don't see what, I don't see, like, realistically, I don't think the bicycle has given you any more protection.
Not if you're running at the same, same speeds.
There's nothing, there's no airbag on a bicycle, right?
People think, oh, we've got two wheels, so it's safer.
No, not really.
If you, if anything hits you when you're on a bicycle, most of your body is exposed.
If you, if you hit a bump and fly off the bicycle, your body is exposed.
If you hit another person, your body is exposed.
There's nothing really on a bicycle that's going to protect you in a collision or an accident.
I've wiped out, I've come down a steep, I came down, people that, well, people, it does, like, people ride bicycles safely for years, but there are a lot of bicycle accidents where cars hit bicycles.
That's happened, that is actually a known fact in, in San Francisco, for example.
A lot of bicyclists have been killed by cars.
It's so ordinary that cops don't investigate it for murder.
Like, like, that is, like, that is an easy way to take somebody out.
They wouldn't even, if they, they're like, uh, we're not, not unless you, like, do it more than once.
But, like, I'm, this is, I guess this is, this, this is a joke, but it's probably true.
I mean, probably.
What is going on here?
So, um, but yeah, so the bicycle situation.
So I just wanted to add, like, okay, so I don't think that stupid thoughts, if you're thinking about harming someone else, um, that's a stupid thought.
Because there's, there's always a better strategy, right?
But it's like, okay, why are you having, why do stupid thoughts happen?
And so it was kind of, something that's kind of like a random generation of thoughts, right?
Maybe you hurt yourself, you get angry, and you create an angry thought, and, you know, whatever.
But it's not, but the point I, the point I wanted to make and record it is it's not exactly random.
Like, you don't have, like, you're not having random thoughts about, you know, what you're going to do when you're on the planet Mars,
and you want to jump over to the planet Saturn, and, like, you, you think that, uh, well, maybe I should just, you know, grab my spaceship.
I mean, your thoughts are not that random.
Um, so maybe if you're six years old, there's also that random, but at the point that you're, you know, 40 years old or whatever, or 30, or 20, you're not, like, having, yeah, maybe just by the age of 20, you're not really having fantasies anymore about, about, uh, being, uh, about what you're going to do if you're on, uh, in a spaceship.
Right? Right? It's just not, it's not for, for you at age 20, it may not be that plausible anymore.
I don't, at some 20, some 20-year-olds, maybe, maybe it is plausible for, for them, but, well, let's just, uh, let's just say that, you know, when you get older, the, the, the number of things that seem plausible to you, right, is, perhaps, for the things that could happen, they, I think they start to shrink.
Like, they start to narrow. It's like, what is a plausible future for you? And they've, they start to narrow.
Uh, now, maybe, maybe there is some reality to that. If you're young enough, it actually is plausible that someday you may have to make a decision about what you're going to do on a spaceship.
And maybe you'll have kinds of, some kind of, uh, propulsion technologies that, that we, uh, haven't even dreamt of yet that can get you from Mars to any other planet really quickly.
Uh, that, that's an interesting idea. I mean, obviously, there's, you know, Star Trek and teleportation and warp drive and, you know, so, so, so, humanity's already dreamt of a lot of faster-than-light travel, uh, scenarios.
Uh, I'm just saying that maybe there's still even more, uh, ways of travel that haven't been, uh, imagined yet that are, are really fast.
But the long story short is that it seems like we have, not, not a random generation, but a, sort of, procedural generation, uh, new possibilities or new thoughts based upon likely patterns that have been learned over time.
Um, so, it may seem that we have sort of, like, sort of, like, random thoughts.
They're not really random, but they might be bad ideas or good ideas or just, like, anyway, so what happens is, you know, some ideas surface and a human being, uh, thinks about them and, and, uh, depending on the conditions,
you either act on those ideas or don't act on those ideas or improve those ideas or some sort of deliberation process that could be short or could be long, could be, uh, moved on long before the end of this long recording.
But the, the, the, the, the point is that, uh, in, in, in each stage, all of those ideas are represented by oscillate, oscillating, uh, patterns.
By basically, you know, what we're talking about and thinking about the actual learned sequences, learned patterns.
Because she said in her book, uh, Models of the Mind, Grace Lindsay, she said that, uh, she was saying that, um, that neurons don't, uh, they only respond when there's a change.
Right? Not, not, like, she was saying there was a test, right?
So, I want to go back and find that because it's like, okay, you know, you can see it when you, when, like, a brain activity response, it changes.
If there's no change, then the pattern remains the same.
So, it's a difference, it's like a difference tracker.
It tracks, uh, uh, differences over time, or sequences of changes.
And those changes are tracked in terms of phase patterns that increase or decrease in learned sequences.
And it's the cortical columns that learn these sequences using individual neurons so that the way the sequences are encoded are virtual.
Meaning, any, like, if, uh, if the neuron that represented that sequence doesn't fire this time, another one could to represent that activity.
Because it's, it's a whole group that has learned together.
Like the fireflies.
Like, uh, the, the original book, Hebe is Learning.
So everyone took away this idea that Hebe is Learning was, the takeaway was that neurons are fired together, wired together.
Not exactly, though.
Uh, some people have said, well, yeah, that's not exactly right, but it's because, it's not exactly right, because what is actually right is that neurons are firing in close sequence with one another.
Not at the same time.
But it, but within, like, a few milliseconds.
I think that was Peter's, uh, Peter, his last name was TSE from, uh, Princeton, professor at Princeton, and author of, uh, Neural Basis of Free Will.
So, but I think that, um, really, for me, what's interesting about, uh, Hebe and about Donald Oheb was not, was not the idea that, that learning is, is, is happening.
But it, it's, it's the idea that we have, um, a, a sensor, a single sensor from the combination of multiple sensors, right?
That's interesting, because that, that to me says, oh, well, let's go back to fireflies and consider how, as a group, fireflies are, uh, able to act as a single sensor because of their oscillatory activity.
Because they all are reacting to each other, any, anything that happens to one of them, eventually spreads, dissipates, through a dissipating pattern spreads to the rest of them.
So, it, it is like a group of fireflies is, uh, is a wireless consciousness.
And that wireless consciousness grows in intelligence with the, with the more feedback that it has.
