=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0047y My history Brain Frequencies
First recorded: 2021-12-09T05:59:16.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/ecb5d4c1-a10f-4163-b91d-f64ed76a3e78
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
What I had said was that Gazzaniga hadn't, he did all this work on split-brain surgery, but there is still, there are still connections between the two hemispheres.
Like the, there's a connection between the thalami, and in their, and it appears that their, their, you know, activity in the left and right, you know, visual cortex is, still seems to be synchronous without the, the corpus callosum.
Uh, you still have oscillating, uh, temporal spatial phase patterns percolating through neural circuits, um, that are matching in the left and right hemisphere, even after the corpus callosum is cut.
And, so I said this in, in, in a group of folks, and said, well, that is a great point, these neuroscientists.
And, and, and the main argument is that Gazzaniga, he, uh, and, and the major, you know, the researchers who are doing the big work, they don't necessarily, um, like, Gazzaniga says he doesn't really do higher-level math, he doesn't really, he doesn't have to, he's a famous guy, he's done amazing work.
But he also sort of like, he's, he's sort of an old, from a previous generation of, of neuroscientists, who, a principal investigator, and, and he's got people in his lab who can, who can do the math.
Um, and he spends a lot of his time just thinking about, um, the work.
And, um, so it, it does seem like, you know, the fact that there's a, the, the, the, the, the, the thalamus does a lot with really tiny connections.
And, um, and the brain does manage to stay in sync.
And you don't necessarily have to, um, you know, you can look at the split, you can look at the split-brain surgery, uh, you know, in terms of there's that initial trauma from, from the surgery, in which the, in which the corpus callosum was severed.
But in the months that follows, you know, the, the patients, uh, recover, the two hemispheres learn to cooperate.
And, but there, but that, you know, part of that is that there is still actually a connection between the two hemispheres.
Um, at least there's the thalamic bridge.
And, uh, possibly, I mean, it's possible that there continue to be wireless connections of energy sent back and forth across the, um, the two hemispheres.
Um, or at least there are synchronization patterns.
I kind of wonder if, if, I, I'm, you know, I'm, I'm curious to find out if we could ever find a way to, to take the, the, the idea of quantum entanglement and apply that to the brain somehow.
Um, I, I'm very curious.
I, that would be like quantum entanglement at the classical scale, right?
Um, but, you know, so that the classical scale, everything is moving a lot slower.
And, and, uh, in addition to being a lot larger.
Um, and so the time, it, it doesn't, it doesn't quite time up with what's happening at the part, particle level.
You know, so there's a bit of, like, how that would happen exactly is, uh, definitely something that people, that many more people will, beyond, beyond, beyond myself are interested to explore further.
To see, uh, how, how to link up things that are happening at the quantum level.
I mean, certainly you can see that there are, um, if you look at, you know, um, uh, the example of photoelectric, uh, stimulation.
Or, or, you know, in, in the, at the, at the chemical level, there's all, there's tons of talk about how, you know, you know, atoms can, can, can, you know, uh, lose.
You know, you can shine light at the brain, at certain light-sensitive proteins.
There are, mag, there are electromagnetic-sensitive proteins.
Um, and some of the, some of the activity with flavins, you know, they, they say, well, birds, birds, uh, can see electromagnetic fields because they have these, um, these blue cone receptors, uh, called flavins that are sensitive to the electromagnetic spectrum.
Humans have these also, so it's argued that birds can see the electromagnetic field, uh, but maybe some people can learn to see the electromagnetic field or have learned to see the electromagnetic field in, in, in, in the sky.
Um, and, you know, and it's interesting that, so Michael, um, Gazzaniga is a, he's a leading neuroscientist and he knows that, and he is, uh, he's a famous guy.
He's influenced tons of people.
He gets, you know, he runs huge departments.
He's, but he, but he, he, um, and his, his, his book, I mean, like, he, he said he's not great with math.
He doesn't, you know, the higher level of math.
And, uh, he doesn't need to be.
He doesn't need to spend his time that way.
But I think that as, you know, when he, he talks about Donald Hebb and he talks about, um, you know, basically how we learn that neurons, uh, you know, through experience, our neurons fire together and they, and they wire together.
Um, where they fire one, they fire in sequences and then, and then they learn those sequences.
Um, because those sequences, uh, change, change the, change the, the brain.
They're story, they become learned by the brain.
And invariant representations of, of those learnings are learned by the brain.
So, so that parts of your brain could fail, but, but your brain would still recognize the pattern.
You could have a neuron that fails to fire and, and another neuron can, can do, can, can represent the pattern, can take its place.
Because, because your brain learns patterns invariantly.
It's very robust.
And so I was talking about how, um, in 2012, there, there are actually 50 years of brainwave entrainment research.
There's just a new article that came out.
I was talking to Rick Edente about this, uh, NeuroscienceNews.com article,
Boosting Memory Performance by Finding the Amplitude of Brainwaves and Speeding, Um, Oscillations.
So there are 50 years, there's 50 years of research with, um, with, uh, brainwave entrainment.
There's, uh, Holosync, there's Hemosync, there's, um, the Cassina Mind Machine, there's Len, there's Len Oaks.
He created the Len Oaks Protocol, which was, uh, photostimulation with a brainwave entrainment.
He had a lot of success with the patients that he was treating.
And then he went on to develop the transcranial magnetic stimulation.
Because he, that's his, uh, next level, uh, uh, way to stimulate the brain to produce, uh, results.
Um, and, uh, so in 2012, I, I, uh, got the Len Oaks, uh, uh, protocol.
And I, I, I was giving it to people with light and sound and, um, uh, that involved taking people through, uh, uh, brainwave entrainment, uh, with binaural beats from, uh, from, uh, delta to theta to, to, to alpha to beta and gamma.
And then back down again, um, and, um, and so, uh, and I was also, uh, experimenting with simulating people's brains with, um, uh, with TACS, uh, transcranial alternating current stimulation.
And, um, and, um, and I've used lots of different devices, um, uh, EEG, uh, with the Emotive, EEG with, uh, the NeuroSky, EEG with, um, the, uh, Brainduino that we, we brought into VR in, in 2018.
I brought EEG into VR in 2018, um, virtual reality.
And that was a goal that I decided on to do back, that's why I started studying virtual reality, um, uh, I tried it at, uh, SFVR in, in 2015 when I was working at, uh, at Adobe, um, and, uh, I was just helping out with the event.
I was security there, and, uh, the, um, uh, I, I met my friend, uh, Matt Sonic, and, and I eventually became part of the S, San Francisco virtual reality team.
And eventually became an organizer, like, I think a year or two later after that, some, maybe a year later, and, um, to organize, uh, the meetup.
Um, but the, um, but when I was there in 2015, in May of 2015, at the, at Adobe, trying, at the SFVR event, I tried Tilt Brush, and it was so amazing.
Um, it's the same, it's the same, it's the same Tilt Brush you can try, you can try on the Oculus, uh, Quest 2, uh, today.
Um, but I tried it back in 2015, one of the first people in the world to try Tilt Brush.
Um, and, um, I was painting with light and space, and it was just mind-bogglingly amazing.
And, and I, I knew, um, that, uh, I was gonna bring, uh, EEG into VR, and to, so that you could stimulate someone's brainwaves with, um, uh, very specific patterns.
And, and, so this, so then I, I started to talk about some of my ideas there, uh, of how, you know, we could combine eye-tracking and just, you know, paying attention to what someone was looking at in VR, and looking at their brainwave activity.
That became the, the, the, basically the, the purpose of the Neural Ace podcast, was to explore next-generation brain-computer interfaces that, that involved virtual reality, uh, or augmented reality, or eye-tracking, and, and also doing correlations with, uh, with the brain.
And, and, so that was my work in 2012. That was, that was, that my company was called NeoMindCycle.
So I did that from 2012 to about 2014.
Let me just restate that. So if you look at the hippocampus, uh, theta, theta frequencies in particular are involved in memory formation, and if you sabotage those theta frequencies, then, uh, then, uh, you have a traumatic effect, you can have a traumatic effect on memory.
So, the actual frequencies, uh, that you simulate with have very specific effects.
And if you look in the, the history of brainwave entrainment, there's lots of, like, if you go, actually, what I really want to tell people about is, if you go on YouTube, um, you can, like, type in brainwave entrainment, and you can find some really awesome, uh, there's three kinds.
There's, there's binaural beats, um, there's isochronic beats, and then you can also just listen to, um, like, frequencies, like the, you can look up, like, the sulfego frequency, like, 369, and, but anyway, the point is that you can find, like, this, if you look up brainwave, bina, if you look up binaural beats, you can find, like, gamma frequencies, or delta frequencies.
You can find, when they say, there's, like, alpha frequencies they recommend for studying.
If you want to go to sleep, they recommend, like, delta or theta frequencies.
If you want to be, like, very alert, you know, like, like, like, like, being caffeinated, and, and just very productive, you might want to go for beta frequencies or gamma frequencies, um, the higher range frequencies.
And, and, and these correlate, like, you know, people who have, like, depression, they have a lot of, uh, um, they have a lot more predominance of theta, the slower frequencies of theta and delta frequencies, which, which I think correlates with my idea that, that, that, that for some people, depression is a metabolic disorder.
They're, they're, they're not producing enough energy, not enough ATP, and so they're not able to, um, uh, maintain those higher frequency, um, states that, that the neurotypical has when they go about their day-to-day life.
So their life is, is slower, and it's, like, more depressed, and it's, like, they can't do as much, and they're having, they're struggling.
And it is, it's, it's, it's a depressing situation, and when you're, when you're, when you're, when you're, have base, have a metabolic disorder, and it pulls you down into lower brainwave frequencies.
Um, and so that's why I, I was saying, yeah, you can give people, stim, stimulation, that give, that, they can give a depressed person some temporary relief, but if there's a metabolic issue, and that's the real cause of depression, that's not a long-term solution.
And, um, but I wanted to say that because, uh, if you, if you want to, folks can, if you, if you listen to binaural beats, you're going to need headphones, because they, they basically,
it works by giving each of your ears a difference in, like, 10 hertz, um, with the sound.
And if you listen to isochronic beats, you don't need headphones, because you can just, it's just no difference between what they send to your left ear and to what your right ear.
Um, and it, and, again, you don't need headphones for the, um, like, the, uh, just the, the tones, like the Sulphur Ego frequency, 369, and so, and so forth.
Like, you can listen to, um, yeah, I think, I'll pause myself.
I, I, I might be able to add something.
So, so, so, subliminal messaging is, um, so, you know, I mentioned at the top that, that, um, that brainwave entrainment was early on dismissed by, by some of the, uh, medical professionals as pseudoscience,
Or maybe that's not the right word.
Maybe it's just dismissed and is that it's too hard to explain and understand
and sort of prove the conclusions that people have.
It's sort of like, you know, there's a lot of claims that people have
about what brain wave entrainment is doing that are just sort of have been difficult
for people on the computational neuroscience side.
To sort of like understand how to connect to those ideas.
So it's like there's not been enough understanding to sort of like really have support in the past.
But there's a whole, I'm sorry, I totally forgot what was going on with that.
What was your question?
Yes.
Yeah.
So a long time ago I did a podcast called the Neuralase Podcast.
And I talk a lot about my ideas in terms of building an artificial cortex in that podcast.
So that's available if you just search YouTube for the Neuralase Podcast.
Actually, you can go to my website.
It's V-R-M-A dot I-O.
And that's the website.
Sure.
Dot I-O.
Yep.
Yep.
And so that's Isaac and Oscar.
Yep.
So I, well, I am a programmer.
So if you look at, if you look at, if you want examples of my programming work, if you go to my Twitter page,
which is twitter.com slash worksalt, and you look at my pinned post,
that pinned post contains a number of videos and links to my, to my work, including GitHub links.
And you can see videos of my, of my, I make AR and VR applications.
Uh, and also I incorporate, I make brain computer interface software.
So there's, um, one of my applications brings EEG into VR.
And, um, so I've got a lot of experience with brain, brain computer interface tech.
And I, so, and I'm actually writing a book right now in which I'm going to talk about brain computer interfaces
and some design ideas I have for new brain computer interfaces.
And also for, uh, artificial brains for how to build them.
Like I have my own hypothesis that I'm going to share.
That's different from what other people are saying.
And then also I'm going to write, I'm going to write about, it sounds pretty amazing, uh, to say, to say it out loud.
But I'm also going to write about how a human brain works.
How, how, uh, phenomenal consciousness works in the human brain.
Like I think I have something new to say that people have never heard before.
And I'm also going to write about, uh, quantum gravity.
I, I believe that I, I am going to propose a new equation to explain, uh, uh, quantum gravity.
I'm going to do all four of these things in my book.
So brain computer interfaces, uh, artificial intelligence, um, and, and in between is, is going to be, um, artificial cortex.
And, uh, and then, uh, quantum physics and connecting that to gravity and also, um, how human brains work.
So I'm actually, uh, writing that book right now.
And very excited about it.
Uh, and, uh, but you can definitely check out my previous work.
Uh, you've, you've got the links now, so.
That's right.
Yeah, I led that project.
That was my project.
That was my, that was my idea.
Other people helped me with it, but I was the driver of the project.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, we, we're creating an experience for people.
So, um, what happens is, um, we, uh, so, you know, we're capturing, uh, uh, you know, representations of your brain activity as voltages measured on, on your, with sensors placed on your forehead.
And, and, and, and we're turning those voltages into numbers that we're bringing into a webpage with, with, with, with, uh, the VR application.
So the VR application runs in, runs in a webpage.
And so we're bringing those signals via WebSocket.
And then, I, and then, um, we make something happen, uh, for each of the, the, the variations in the signals that are coming.
So the signals go up and down within a certain range.
Maybe, maybe, maybe, you know, um, plus or minus four, or in between plus or minus four.
And so we, so what, what we did, uh, what I did, uh, the, the project that I led was I, um, uh, I, I had it set so that the, uh, so one idea was that we would just create a time series so that there, so that we'd move a vector, um, in a sheet up to, um, move it up along the Y axis.
And so imagine that you have a 3D space in the, in the, in the, in a VR application.
And the Y axis is what goes up and down.
So we moved, uh, part of a sheet of, um, of a plane up.
We moved one of its, we moved one of its vectors upwards, uh, and then we moved it back, we shifted it backwards and moved the next one up with the next number that came from the voltage from your forehead.
And so the, and, and then we changed it to another, I changed it to another, um, uh, sort of visualization where instead of that, I had independent spheres going up and down along the Y axis and changing color as they went up and down.
And they, the up and down pattern represented your brainwave activity, represented the numbers we were receiving from the voltage from your forehead.
And, um, so as, as that voltage increased or decreased, the height of the spheres that you saw in virtual reality would go up or down.
So we had like originally like a thousand spheres.
It was a little bit slow and choppy, but people could get up and walk around inside this representation of their brain activity.
Um, and you can see, you can see that if you look through my work, you can see videos of that.
And you can download, and you can download the software.
We open sourced it.
So it's open source software on my, you can see the code also.
Four areas for it.
It's basically, well, it's really, it's really five areas.
So if we outline the five areas, so one is, uh, neuro, the neuroscience or neurophysics of how the brain actually works.
And that includes, and that includes, and I work on me, I work on all the areas of the brain.
So the brain has many different specialists and many different sort of like subfields.
So like, you know, some people will, will just study the hippocampus and some people will study the hippocampus and the, and, and the, and the inner cortex.
You know, neuroscientists, they specialize in certain areas, right?
I study it all.
And, and, um, so I, like, you know, I talk to a lot of neuroscientists.
And, uh, it's great when I like, um, they're like, I don't know about that because I only study this one area.
And I, oh, well, let me, let me help you fill in the gaps there.
Yeah.
I mean, that, I think that happens a lot because, because, um, because a lot of the, um, a lot of the discovery has been done.
And so you have to like, look, you have to get really, um, you want, you, you sort of like, as a, as a, if you know you're going to be a neuroscientist as your career, you, you kind of, um, a lot of people want to be very specialized.
Because, because the idea is you want to look for something that someone else hasn't seen yet.
And in the last 200 years of, you know, when most of the neuroscientists have been done, the last 200 years, even the last 20 years, it is like, it's increasingly like harder to find something new.
And it's just like, you're, you, and then you have to like, and then the amount of stuff that's been created, there's a mountain of research on that is, it's so much information that the, it's like, you know, like, it's like, you know, when the left hand doesn't know what the right hand is doing.
Because, uh, because the research is so big that that is the reality of the situation where there's like so many sub, there's like, there's neuroscience, there's neuropsychology, there's computational neuroscience, there's, there's, um, computational biology, there's like all these different, like, um, there's, you know, like neurology and neuroscience are two different things.
Yeah, they sound the same. They sound the same. There's lots of overlap.
Let me, let me pull up my, I wrote some, I wrote something to this effect. Let me see if you can pull up, uh, neurophysics. This will help, uh, neurophysics. Sure.
I just want to find this note, because I actually put a lot of work into this for my book, um, which is coming out soon.
Um, I, I'm, I'm hoping that it'll, it'll come out, uh, this December. Uh, I'm working on it.
Um, yeah, I've got a lot, I've got a lot of work to do.
Yeah, December, December, or at the latest, at the latest January, but, um, I think it's going to come out in December. It's going to come out this month, I think.
Yeah, Kindle, Amazon Kindle.
But, uh, let me see if I can find it. So, okay, let me just, and I'll just, I'll just sort of do this from memory.
Um, so, okay, so, so think of, like, um, let me get this, this one I have.
Okay, so I see, so I see neuroscientists being primarily concerned with discovering neuroanatomy, such as mapping the connectome in the major brain regions.
And then I see computational, uh, biology or computational neurobiology as sort of concerned, um, with mapping the functional connectivity.
Um, how information might be distributed, how it might flow.
And that kind of gets into, like, also just, like, the area of, uh, um, connectomics and networks with the brain, you know, olas, sporns, and so forth.
Um, I see neurophysics as being sort of concerned with the theoretical physics of neuron function and brain function at the, both, at both the classical and quantum scales, uh, and, you know, chemical and molecular scales, um, in terms of, like, you know, what are all the different, you know, what's going on, like, thermally, what's going on, like, electrically, what's going on with the physics, or neurophysics.
Um, and, you know, I kind of see neurology as being concerned with the treatments and the causes of neurodysfunction.
So I also study neurology, but, but, uh, but, um, it's, it's sort of, it's sort of, like, uh, just accidental, I guess.
I, you know, when I, I love to read about, um, you know, Alzheimer's and, uh, and Parkinson's and, uh, and Huntington's, uh, and, and the, and the coronavirus and cancer and, uh, immunology.
And I, I love to read all this, um, basically this is the, this is the category of, of neurology, right, and the study of medicine.
But, um, it's really because of the insights that I get into computational biology, um, that's sort of, like, because I can, you know, and, and I would have to say the least interesting one is, is, um, is, uh, is, is neuro, um, what is it called?
Neuropsychiatry, because, or neuropsychology, because, you know, it, it's, it's, psychology is, it's much more at the, at the level of, of trying to, uh, relate what's happening at the people level to what's happening with their, with their brains and, and a lot of, you know, um, and when you get into neuropsychology, I mean, it's just like, so I, so psychology is, anyway, it's the least interesting area for me.
It's just, it's, it's, it's, um, but I hope I've given you sort of, sort of, like, you know, the, the neurophysicist is going to be much more mathematically oriented, um, and, and, and versus the, you might have some neurologists or neuroscientists, um, who, like, famous ones who are not especially good, uh, at mathematics or, or computer modeling, um, like the, like the neurophysicists and the computational biologists.
So, so, so the, so the fact that I'm a programmer makes, makes me, um, more, more interested in, I think, in computational biology research and also in neurophysics, um, because those are the kinds of things where, you know, programming computers and doing math, um, is, it's, uh, so it's, it's just, it's about the level of focus.
And I hope that's been a good, a good, sort of, overview for you.
Does it, no, go ahead.
No, I feel that way, too.
I mean, I mean, in terms of, like, it's not that often that I get to talk to someone with, with, with that much knowledge.
Me?
Oh, no, I, I, I, yeah, I, I, I, I have a, I have a normal, uh, sleeping routine.
I, I try to, you know, I've, I've read that, um, it's very important to get eight hours of sleep.
Uh, or I try to, at least, if, if, if, if I, if I'm late getting to sleep, I try to sleep in because I, I, I believe that that eight hours of sleep is important for memory function, for brain function.
So I, you know, um, yeah, sleep is super important.
You don't, uh, don't ever skip on sleep if you, I mean, one thing that's interesting, people, people who have trouble sleeping, um, you know, it, it, the length, the length of the amount of time that you have to sleep has to do with the temperature.
Of your room.
And, yeah, so if you, like, if you want to have, like, if you want to have a lot of control, it's about, it's about what temperature it is at the time that you're trying to go to sleep.
Like, if you're, if you're, if you're very warm, you're going to sleep longer.
And if you're, but it depends on, like, if you, if you get your, it, it affects, it, it, it connects to your circadian rhythm.
You know, like, like light, like, if there's too much blue light at, at the end of, of a day or from your computer screen that can keep you up later.
Um, and the same thing with, with temperature.
Like, if you get, if you get rid of the blue light so you can relax your eyes, it's not good for your eyes anyways, right?
Um, the, um, uh, if you get rid of the blue light and if you are, is this, is sleep something you're worried about getting enough sleep?
Is that, is that part of it or are you just, no.
Um, so I, yeah, so, so, so, um, uh, I, I, I really, um, uh, I'm a very, I'm a very organized person.
I keep, um, tons of notes, uh, all digital notes, audio and text notes in multiple, um, multiple different, uh, online tools, uh, and, uh, with, with many different backups.
And so I'm a very, like, I'm very detail-oriented and very, like, um, very organized, very planned.
Um, and, um, you know, I, I like brainwave entrainment, like, like, that, that, that, that's very useful.
I like nootropics.
I think nootropics can help with memory.
Um, taking care of your brain, getting enough exercise, having a, sort of, like, an emotionally healthy routine.
Um, you know, meditation, um, I like to do biking, bicycling, um, healthy eating, um, I, I like protein drinks that are, like, high in protein, all essential amino acids.
All, I get all essential vitamins, all essential, um, fatty acids, omega-3s.
I love any food that has omega-3s in it.
Like, you know, there's lots of different options there, lots of fish and stuff and so forth.
And, um, the thing about essential nutrients is, is people know that they're called essential nutrients and they don't get them.
And they, like, they, they, then they're surprised when they have health problems.
They're like, well, you don't care about your essential nutrients, right?
You know, you think they're optional?
No, they're essential.
So, yeah, so people will definitely have health problems if they don't get their essential nutrients.
It doesn't, like, they don't think about it.
They're like, I, well, okay, I'm going to go to McDonald's anyways.
I'm like, you're not getting any omega-3 from McDonald's, right?
This matters.
It matters.
So, yeah.
Seafood's great.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, so the book, I'm writing a book that I think is going to change the world for real.
Like, really, it's going to, like, it's going to, like, it's going to, I'm going to hit, I'm hitting, like, five different major topics simultaneously.
Innovations in all five of them.
And, um, I, I, I feel like I've been, you know, hit with lightning five times, that that's how, like, profound that is.
Um, and, uh, but, uh, besides the book, then there's going to be a web, there's going to be a web VR, a WebXR website, which talks about the contents of the book in 3D and VR.
And then there's, and then there's going to be a, uh, brain, I'm going to make brain-computer interfaces, new ones, with the help of others.
I'm starting an institute, a scientific institute.
We're going to make new technology.
We're going to make, make new machines.
What, we're, we're going to make, okay, the brain-computer interface with the visual cortex.
Okay.
I mean, that, I mean, I mean, yeah, what is your, what, do you have a specific question?
I have a lot of experience in that, but I'm not sure what, that's, like, a giant area.
Oh, that's really, that's really interesting.
I think you may have found an area that, that, uh, I'm a little, okay, so, um, you know, okay, so there is the, um, the machine where they have the,
um, the person who's blind, and they have, um, uh, they have, like, he has, he, he wears, like, a tongue strip, or originally it was a back strip, right?
It was this back strip of electrodes, and that's a tongue strip of electrodes.
The same concept, just a lot smaller, because the tongue is able, the tongue is incredibly, uh, versatile, so the size of the sensor is a lot smaller, and it's a lot easier.
But it used to be a back strip, and either way, the same concept is you have this, you have this, um, sort of plane of electrodes that sticks to the surface of the body, either the back or the tongue, and that's connected to the pixels in the camera.
And so when the, when, uh, when the camera, uh, basically the camera's video stream, like, if you, if you consider that, you know, it's changing the pixels, and it's making each pixel light or dark, depending on, at each moment in the video stream.
And what they do is they, is they look at the, they take the, the strip of electrodes that is, is connected to your tongue, that, that plane of electrodes, it's like a matrix, right?
And they, and they stimulate those electrodes, they turn the charge up or down on each of those electrodes independently, correlating to the pixels getting brighter or darker on the camera.
And that stimulation, your brain converts into an image, and so people, you can, the brain can learn to see through the tongue with that, with the camera, with that, yeah, yeah, right?
No, the, the back of the, the back of the back, the back of, above the butt, the back, the back, back, yeah, yeah.
That's, that was, originally they put it there, and it was really big, but then they realized it was better to make a smaller one and put it on the tongue.
So, in, in addition to that, I mean, there's, there's a lot of, like, you know, stem cell research in terms of, um, uh, you know, in terms of replacing and repairing, uh, the, right.
I, well, you gotta read my book, because I'm gonna, I'm gonna, like, I think I know what the mechanism is, and it's gonna be in my book.
Yeah.
Right.
The public knowledge is not up to date.
That's right.
I'm, I'm really interested in that, in that as well.
I mean, there's definitely a lot of, um, uh, there's, there's, everything about, everything about that you learn about one neuron, there's like a, there's like a, there's like a, there's like a million different variations.
There's like, and, uh, yeah.
And, and they really, um, like, the dendrites are, like, all different shapes, and it's just, like, every, every rule that you think is true gets broken.
And, and, and, um, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not 100% sure on, on what, on what you're referring to, but there's like, you know, there's like, uh, there are neurons that are, that's, that are different.
They specialize with certain kinds of, um, neurotransmitters, like there's dopamine neurons, and then there's, like, GABAergic neurons, and there's glutamatergic neurons, and there's acetylcholine neurons, and, and, um, then, and, and then there's like, um, yeah.
Yeah, so, I mean, it's, it's, it's, it's, they, there, there are, um, the thing is, like, like, so the GABA neurons, for example, like, they, um, the, they're, they're, like, in certain brain areas, like the, um, um, like the, uh, thalamus, and they, they have, and what comes out of them is, uh, our brainwaves that are in the delta frequency range.
And that's very interesting. It's like, okay, so we have a certain kind of neurotransmitter in a certain area, and the outcome is a certain, is a certain part of the brainwave frequency spectrum.
All those things are correlated. And if you look at, like, um, you know, a lot of the incoming senses, uh, from, when you go from the eyes, you know, to, to the, to the, uh, to, to the visual cortex, um, in the visual cortex, right where the senses are coming in,
and, so you go from the eyes along the optic nerve to the thalamus to the, to, to the back, to the occipital lobes, right, and, um, what you're getting, um, there's, what, there, what, there's a lot of alpha waves
in, in, in, in that lower, sort of, like, lower input areas of the cortex, the sensory input areas. There's a lot of alpha waves in them.
You know, I sort of, like, I feel like the, the prefrontal cortex has been misunderstood.
The, like, the literature says that, that, you know, we have the, we have three primary sensitive cortices, and, and what's left over is the prefrontal cortex, right?
But, I, you know, it's, it's like, um, it, it's not, it's not incorrect, but it's also not, I think it's not, like, the prefrontal cortex really isn't a lot different.
It's not a lot different. It's just a little bit different, and it's, it's basically, like, um, you know, there's a lot of, you know, you're, you've, you've got your, um, your gusatory information and your emotional information that sort of, uh, is right there at the input to the prefrontal cortex.
And, um, I, I, so I, I still think of the prefrontal cortex as, like, the fourth, it's, like, the fourth sensory input, but it's, like, gusatory and emotion, right?
I mean, I'm saying gusatory, but I'm, I'm sorry, I meant olfactory.
Gusatory is, gusatory is, is taste, and olfactory is smell.
So, the prefrontal cortex is smell and emotion.
So, that would be olfactory and emotion, I misspoke.
But, um, but gusatory and, um, gus, anyway, so the gusatory goes, it does interact with the olfactory, but, uh, like, smell and taste are intertwined.
But, um, but it also goes, but, but taste goes to the, um, parietal cortex.
It goes, it actually goes to the somatosensory cortex first, where it, it connects with, um, tact, with, uh, the tactile sensations that you can feel with your fingers.
And so, you have taste and smell, and they go up straight to the top of your head, where the, where the, uh, right in the middle, the top of the middle.
So, if you put, so, if you, like, put your hand directly above your head to the somatosensory, I guess you know this already, uh, to the somatosensory cortex,
that's where the, that's where the, the taste and feeling goes, right in the middle of the top of your head.
Um, and then, uh, and then, uh, and then it starts, and then signals seem to travel backwards towards the, um, the visual cortex.
They go backwards and forwards towards the prefrontal, as, as far as I know, they go both directions.
But, but, but, but, like, right in between the, um, uh, so that you have the, the obstacle loads in the back,
and then above, and you have the somatosensory cortex right above, right before the, the motor, um, and, um, the motor cortex.
So, miss, miss, it's, it's, it's misnamed, the misnamed motor cortex.
It's not really, like, every, like, every part of your brain is, is motor cortex, right?
But, um, but, uh, the, the anatomical motor cortex, um, is, is on one side, and then the somatosensory cortex.
So, the somatosensory cortex is, is going to point, uh, if you point from the somatosensory cortex from the middle of your head to the back of your head,
where, where your occipital lobes are, in between is the parietal lobes, and then the, there's the parietal temporal junction, which is, like,
so if you have, if you're seeing something, tasting something, feeling something, hearing something all at the same time,
and you're really focused on something, you, your temporal parietal junction is going to be lighting up, and, yeah, they converge right there.
And, and people almost, people almost think that, like, if you're, like, if you're, if you're aware of something,
like, really, like, consciously focused on it, let's say that you're watching a video,
and there's a bunch of people playing basketball, and there's a gorilla, there's a gorilla that passes, like,
it walks to the screen, you, you've done that one, it's a famous one.
And, um, and so, if, if, uh, if people are not paying attention, then their, their, their TPJ,
their temporal parietal junction, is not lighting up.
It's only when, if you, if you, if you put an apple in front of someone, and they're not paying attention to it,
they're, they're, that part of their brain is just not, not active.
And when they are thinking about the apple, and they're consciously aware of it,
and they're considering it, how it looks, how it feels, how it tastes, how it, how it, how it sounds,
if you smash it or something, like, when they're, when they're really thinking about it,
then you can see their temporal parietal junction lighting up.
And that's, so it's, that is, um, sort of something that, that, that my, that famous neuroscientist Michael,
uh, Gazzaniga talks about, uh, he talks about, um, with his attention schema,
that, that when you're paying attention to something, your parts of your brain, uh, become active,
and, and so it's sort of like, it, it, that's, that's, that is, that provides a window into your brain activity.
Um, and, and that's, so, so, so, anyway, I'm also a neuroimager, so that's, I think a lot about that.
It's part of my book.
Yeah, well, um, it, I think more specific, I mean, like, I don't know, I have some,
there's different hypotheses about attention to death disorder.
I mean, I like, I, with some medical imaging, it's known that, um, there's, um, some, like,
you can see that blood flow is not that great in the, um, uh, in the prefrontal cortex, um,
there, there's, versus the neurotypical.
And then there's also some speculation that the, that the, there might be, like, cerebellum damage,
which has to do with, with how well you can balance.
And you can, you can almost, like, if you see someone and they have, like, really weird movements,
like, they're not walking straight, they're just doing weird, like, things,
you can guess they might, you can guess they, they, that is almost a symptom of, of attention disorder,
attention deficit disorder.
Yeah, well, it's not, it's not very widely known, but it's, so, it's, like, it's, like,
there's multiple things happening with the person's memory.
And so, like, attention deficit disorder, what it shares in common with Alzheimer's is pretty
interesting, because it's, like, they're both different diseases of memory dysfunction,
uh, for different reasons.
But there, but it's, there's something in, something happening in the, in the tissue,
at the cell level, uh, that is dysfunctional.
And, um, you know, I, I think, I mean, I'm thinking it's probably a metabolic disorder from,
um, that stems from, uh, uh, you know, not getting all your sense of nutrients.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, I mean, I think that's a major cause.
There's two causes.
Uh, one is disease from, like, um, you know, there's certain things in your body that shouldn't
be there, or, um, there's some sort of injury happening, uh, either from, like, blunt force
impact or, like, cancer or something.
And then, and then, some of the, a lot of, a lot of diseases are just caused by malnutrition.
So, yeah.
I mean, so there's, there's, there's, there's two big things that people pay attention to
when, when, uh, when they hire is when, you know, like, when you think about who to
bring on your team is, is people look for, you know, people who are talented and people
who have grit, right?
And, and the more important one really is grit, because it's like, well, is your team member
gonna, gonna have the endurance to sort of stick through and continue the project?
And I believe that endurance is about, um, the, the energy and metabolism on some level.
It's like a, it's like the, the behavior that results from having grit is, has, has, has,
is a behavior that results from people who have good nutrition, uh, who have energy and
endurance.
And so they can stick with the project even when it's hard, even when they can't figure
it out.
And they get farther than people who, um, who might be extraordinarily talented and intelligent,
but can't, can't, can't, can't, you know, rise to the challenge when, when they, when the
challenge is, is there.
And they just, they give up.
And, and so grit, um, is, uh, anyway.
Sounds good.
Thank you, thank you so much.
Wow, we talked for like 50 minutes.
That's amazing.
All right.
Nice.
Well, maybe you can send me the link to that on, uh, on Twitter or something and, and I'll,
um, or however.
And, uh, you've got, you've got my contact details on VRMA and, is it in Russian?
I, well, okay.
So you want to join this club?
Thanks.
Well, okay.
Well, I don't, thanks.
I don't know how I can even type this.
I think we got disconnected.
I think I actually, I think I clicked on the group that, and that's why we got disconnected.
I started listening to some other group for a second quite accidentally.
So that must have been your group, but yeah, I don't know how I can, I have to learn Russian
first, I guess, before I can really participate in your groups.
Oh, and, and so, and if someone needs translation help, someone else will help.
Yeah.
Just in case there's someone there that doesn't speak English.
Great.
Yeah.
Oh, absolutely.
Um, that, yeah.
