=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0042y 3D signal processing
First recorded: 2021-12-24T07:24:48.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/a0417614-0cd5-46e4-ab6f-1165f067b7c6
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
3D Signal Processing.
Okay, so the human brain is like a 3D signal processor.
Cortical column is dealing with information like front to back, but there still are directions for signals.
There's signal paths, right? There are signal paths for...
I'm gonna do the beginning of time story.
I'm gonna do the beginning of time story.
And I'm going to...
I'm gonna take that, like...
I'm gonna talk about Neo Mind Cycle from like...
In 2012...
In 2011, what I thought I was gonna do was I was gonna create a neurofeedback salon.
And I had...
I spent some of the year doing...
I spent some of that first year doing a lot of research and a lot of testing.
In fact, the first two years, a lot of research on a testing.
I tested on myself.
I'd have people that I met in San Francisco come and come to my office and test it out.
And they'd report back on their experiences.
And we had one remarkable person who had...
Tried the experience one time, and then...
They went on to have some incredible breakthroughs in therapy where their multiple personalities coalesced into a single personality.
And he was, uh...
He, uh...
He, uh...
Was a, um...
A trans man.
San Francisco trans man.
That, uh...
That I met, and who had tried, uh...
He's one of the rare people who tried, uh...
Neo Mind Cycle.
That was my business.
And, uh...
And the goal was to optimize brains, but of course, uh...
I couldn't...
I couldn't figure out, um...
How to prove that brain optimization had happened.
I couldn't...
I couldn't figure out how to, um...
It's just like, you know, how do you...
How do you look at brain signals and say, okay, well, this is...
Good.
And this is better.
Like, this is...
This...
That would require, like, decoding what those brain signals meant.
And I wasn't at that place.
And, uh...
And I hadn't really even fully grasped that this was the question in front of me.
Like, it was just so abstract.
Like, what am I doing?
How does this, like, add value to the customer?
What's the appropriate price to sell this for as an experience?
Can this really work as a neurofeedback salon?
Could I really optimize brains?
What am I...
What if I'm not optimizing brains?
What am I doing?
And so, like...
And, like, trying to help myself.
Like, yeah, there's this one person who said they had amazing, uh...
breakthroughs in therapy.
This one woman, she said that she'd be...
She started cleaning a lot.
After she tried it...
She tried the session one time and she went home and she started cleaning.
Like, the whole weekend.
Like, as if she had, you know, as if she'd, like, taken cocaine or something.
She was just cleaning everything.
And...
I mean...
Not cocaine.
Um...
Speed.
Speed is the one that makes you clean.
Right?
I don't know.
I've...
I've never...
I think I have...
I can't say I've ever...
No, I don't think so.
Yeah, I can't remember.
I don't know.
Imagine if you had Kirby the car and he ran out of gas and died.
Like, imagine if the car, like, had to maintain gas.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Just say why.
Like, cause then the car has to, like, think about whether or not it's going to take on
a journey.
Someone's going to give them a journey.
And, uh, oh yeah, I can do that.
But it has to, like, okay, well, how far am I away from getting gas if I go there?
And...
Cause literally that's the end of the car's life.
Unless someone else is kind enough to bring them gas.
Yeah.
So, I mean, I guess they could, yeah, they could call, like, yeah, going into, like,
their last, in that case, their, like, their last gas would be to send out, like, a signal
requesting a gas delivery from a drone or something.
That they would, it would cost more money or something.
But, like, uh, at the last resort they would do it if they couldn't get to gas in time.
It kind of sucks cause we want to, like, I don't like the idea of gas cars anymore.
So I don't think electric vehicles sound nicer.
I don't know.
I don't know.
They csuk.
You can.
And I think it'd be funny.
Anyway, if you just said, check this off.
