=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0055y Oscillators
First recorded: 2021-11-11T11:48:31.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/656e62d3-372b-4199-b74f-8bee458b1219
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
I think when you're a kid, you go through so many different, I think it's that relatives want to impress you, right? Especially the male relatives want to impress the kids. The female ones do too, but it's, I don't know.
I think that in my experience, I was really impressed with magnetism. I think it was the grandfather on my father's side was really into magnets and electricity, and he would show us some of the really weird things with the movement of magnets.
and how, and the movement of electricity, how it would, I remember he, we, you know, kids have to be taught that if they, if they grab onto something that is electric with both hands,
that there's, there's going to be like a circuit that forms that, that, that, um, causes them to continue to grip to, uh, to close their grip around whatever they're grasping.
So, so, um, so, um, in theory, it's, it's difficult to let go if you're, if you're caught in a circuit.
Um, and so they like, okay, well, you can try the circuit out, but try it with the back of your hand, so you're not going to, so your hand doesn't try to grip it.
And, um, and then, and then I remember trying it, and of course the shock is like, yeah, your hand moves away really fast.
Like, it moves away from fire really fast.
Like, when you're taught that the stove is really hot, you get kind of close to it, but then you jerk your hand away, right?
And, um, so I, I actually, I don't, I don't remember very well what happened when we, um, experimented with, uh, with, with a shock.
I mean, that's weird, it was such a long time ago, but, um, but yeah, I just remember that we weren't supposed to, um, put our hands around, around something electric.
And you weren't supposed to stick your tongue on a frozen pole because it would get stuck.
And we had, and so, and so there was like this long list of like, um, you know, I remember talking to my dad at his work.
And he, uh, he was, he was, he was interested in the problem, like, you know, if we're, if like, if most of, if most of your hand is empty space, why is it that it doesn't go through another object?
It's, um, it's like if your hand on a particle level, your hand is kind of like a cloud, kind of, whereas most of it's empty, most of it is empty space most of the time.
And, um, why doesn't that cloud go through it?
And, um, I do kind of like, like, um, I like the, the, um, I like to think about a marching cube, which is like a marching cube is something used in computer graphics.
And, and it has, um, uh, it's really good for, for creating instance voxels, which is something that's done in WebXR.
Um, but you have, you have voxels and you can instance voxels, and so that means you can have a ton of marching cubes.
Um, and, um, this can help simplify 3D graphics, right?
So you can have a lot of detail in your 3D graphics.
But the thing is that, um, with a marching cube, you're in a situation where, um, there is a fundamental, fundamental limit to the, the, uh,
like, it's not, it's not, um, going to give you exact curves, right, that you, that you might want in a real geometric representation.
Um, but it's interesting to think about a marching cube, because it's like any of the planes that make up a marching cube can, uh, uh, be activated.
Which means it, it, um, there's a, there's a, there's a, there's, there's, there are several different ways that it can appear to, to, um, to the human eye, based upon which parts of it are activated.
And the quiz is sort of, like, a very generic, sort of, like, low-cost shape for computer graphics.
But I think it's interesting to think of the marching cube in terms of physics, um, because there are some strange limitations, like, um, you know, about particles, they can't take up the same space, right?
But they do merge, you know, in a sense, like, I think that, um, if you have two electrons that are, have the same phase, that they can merge, but they merge in a, in a way that they, they begin to oscillate each other in time because of the same phase.
And if you, and so, my, the same idea is, like, okay, so if you have a neutron and a positron and an electron together, they can't merge because they have different phases.
Um, it's kind of like, um, these are, they have different phases, uh, different phase patterns, different phase speeds.
It's really the, the different phase velocities, right?
That's the difference between, obviously, that's, that's why a neutron and a positron and, um,
uh, uh, uh, and electron do not merge.
It's because they have different, um, they have different frequency patterns.
And, uh, and they have different amplitudes.
So, I would say that because light has a larger volume than an electron, that it, it's, I mean, I'm just saying, like, I'm just speculating that, that light could be,
could have a higher amplitude, and that, and a higher amplitude would be associated with a greater area.
Yeah, that's weird.
Um, so the idea is that the electron has a smaller area, and it's potentially as fast as light.
It's, it's weird because it should be faster than light, in a sense.
Like, the phase of, like, if, if we have, if really, if, if really is, there's, like, um, what I'm imagining is that there's,
um, is that there's a relationship between phase and amplitude,
such that if a particle's phase increases, um, it's frequency increases, then it's going to be, uh, smaller and faster.
Well, it's going, well, it's going to be smaller and faster, and, um, it's, it's potentially going to be smaller and faster, right?
So, I would think that, yeah, I don't know, it's, it's, that, heart is not completely decided for me, but, um,
um, the reason why light might be faster in some instances would be as if you had...
It, it's, it's, it's, okay, so maybe, so maybe what I'm thinking is that, is that, um,
the speed of light is, like, the speed of light is, is, is, is, like, um, hmm, the constant, right?
Because it is a constant, right?
The speed of light is a constant speed.
The ideal speed of light is a constant speed, right?
Because light can be bent and light can be slowed down.
So, the ideal speed of light, and, it's, it, and so,
So, what I'm, what I'm, so what I've argued previously is that space, um, space, uh, marches forward in time
because the, because particles, particles are moving in the direction of expanding time.
Particles are moving in the direction of expanding time.
And, because expanding time is creating more adjacent opportunities for movement, and particles, the particle movement is fundamentally chaotic.
So, if particle movement is fundamentally chaotic, then there's an equal chance it's going to go in every possible direction.
But, in the direction of space that's excited, because it's moving faster, moving through time,
because it's, like, layered with multiple particles, like a cosine instead of condensate,
there are, basically, more chances for the particle to move in the direction of, uh, hot space,
or oscillating space, or faster space, or, um, expanding time.
Um, and so, the expansion of time is caused by, um, by particle masses, right?
And, and, that, that, um, expansion of time, you should think of it as time is, like, uh, it's, it's, like,
it's, it's fourth dimensional, but in the, in, right?
But it's, but it could be fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth dimensional.
I mean, the idea is that it's just, um, advancing forward in time, and, I mean, like, it's,
what I'm saying is, like, expanding in time is, like, expanding in space.
And then, now, there's additional ways for particles to tumble.
Causes, it's going to cause particle movement, right?
Right. Now, you could say that expanding time is movement, right?
And, um, but you could also see it as a configuration, right?
So, it's, it's a movement from the, you could say expanding time is a movement from the perspective of movement,
uh, it's, like, okay, it's, like, imagine it has space as three dimensions, right?
And, but the three dimensions are only accomplished because the three dimensions of space-time, oh, shit.
Okay, so imagine that the, um, the atoms are polygons and the, uh, and the galaxies are polygons,
but then there's lines between them, so, like, imagine that each oscillator is, like, a 3D configuration of space-time.
It's creating 3D space-time.
But, but, but, but, but in actuality, it's creating intervals of 3D space-time.
Um, so, the interval of space, of 3D space-time, um, increases with mass, or decreases with frequency.
Or, as I say, increases with increasing mass, um, or decreases with, uh, increasing frequency.
So, it's kind of like, so, I guess, in a, in a manner of speaking, it's kind of like a knot in space,
or a traffic jam in space, where a whole bunch of particles collided to create traffic jams that resulted in atoms, right?
So, it's like random particle collisions cause atoms, and atoms become molecules.
And basically, these, um, particle collisions are oscillations merging with oscillations.
And these are oscillations in space-time, and as the oscillations merge,
they effectively combine, or they act as one, which, which, um, means that anything that encounters that,
that body of oscillators, um, ripples through the entire body of oscillators.
So, they act as a combined sensor, an information configuration sensor, but, but also a transmitter.
And the transmission, uh, between one oscillator and another causes space to bend between them,
but also causes lines to form between them.
These lines are particle lines, but they can, um, they can, um, they can, um, they're particle lines in the, in,
in the direction of each of the, um, points.
And the points are made out of oscillators.
And, um, but then, um, all the points that are not in between two, uh, the oscillators, uh, two of the great oscillators,
are going to be doing the opposite thing, where there's an increase in, in traffic that is not moving towards the, um, oscillators.
And this is, like, in the double-slit experiment, how there are lots of, um, bands of really brightly lit, um,
where, part, there's, like, lots of bands where particles landed, because, uh, the configuration space was such that
they had, uh, they had a probability of landing closer to, um, to, um, certain points that reflect.
I think those points, I think those points, like, they kind of represent, uh, like, uh, vert, like, vertical, uh, lines between oscillators.
Right?
And, and so you, but you're going to have, like, strobed, you're going to have strobed lines, basically, uh, that, that emerge from each oscillator,
like, emerge from a planet.
So the planet, so a planet like Earth is going to have strobed lines that are vertical lines, where it's pulling together, um, vertical, particle traffic.
Like, but counterbalance, but that is going to create a counterbalance of, of push with horizontal particle traffic that's in between these vertical lines.
And so in between these vertical lines, all the energy is going to be going to the lines and away from these dark spots.
And so you're going to, you're going to see, basically, um, in a situation where there's a, where there's a sufficiently strong attractor, um, such as, um, um, a, an oscillating planet,
you're going to see, basically, like, um, particle lanes that are oriented towards the, the, the large spherical, uh, large dense spherical attractor, particle lanes.
Um, and, but that, but conversely, that's, like, but that's the equivalent of, like, if you have light and light is sending energy forward, it's, like, okay, so think of the elevator example.
So, like, having gravity on Earth, having, like, having gravity on Earth is, like, being in an elevator shooting straight up at a certain velocity, right?
Um, and, um, so the elevator is, like, this force that's shooting up beneath you, like some, like, particles are being pushed on your, underneath your feet.
They're being pushed upwards, right?
And, and, and, and, and, and, so I'm basically saying that, that, the, um, the force of the oscillations is creating a gravitational force that feels like an elevator where your, where particles are being pulled down as if they're being pushed for us.
So, in the double set experiment, you're actually firing photons.
You're firing photons.
So, there's force where, coming from the photon emitter.
And that force, it's coming from the photon emitter that's firing, firing the, the light in a certain direction.
It's going to be equivalent to, like, an oscillating, an oscillating mass, the same way that an elevator is going to be equivalent to, to gravity on Earth.
And so that is going, that, the, the, um, double set experiment itself is interfering with the experiment.
Because, as it fires, like, um, photons, um, it is basically, is basically creating a gravitational field that is warping space-time in such a way that it's creating, like, the same sort of vertical lines that an oscillator would create, but creating them from a beam.
Um, right, and so they're fanned out, and so you see, like, this, like, this, like, basically this wave pattern is in the double-slit experiment.
So, it is really interesting how, basically, how every oscillator, um, every oscillator's configuration is based on its interactions with everything else.
And everything in the universe is an oscillator.
So, um, let's say that we're, we have to put the observer in the, in the room with a double-slit experiment.
If an observation is going to happen, right, then that, then that means that a certain amount of activity in the retina, um, is going to receive the signal.
Uh, it's going to receive the signal, and then it's going to, uh, it's going, it's going to, some of the oscillators are going to fire, and they're going to cause lots of inhibitions in the retina.
So, only a small, only small parts of the retina are going to, are going to react, uh, only, I mean, the whole retina's going to react, but it's going to react, like, where you have small parts that are going to fire in each moment, and they're going to inhibit the rest of it.
So, you're going to have, like, um, basically, like, um, basically, like, the sparse and distributed, uh, pattern, um, happening in the retina at the, at, at, at, as light.
Uh, it's, I'm, I'm guessing, but it's basically, like, as, so light is going to interact with the, um, uh, with light-sensitive proteins.
And, um, and that activity is going to generate the first action potentials, and the first arrays.
Basically, it's the, that's, that's the, the, the, the arrays, the, the first array, right?
The sensor, the sensors, uh, the light-sensitive proteins.
And then we have the, you know, the, uh, but, but the basic principle is that, um,
um, they have a receptive field, and the receptive field, um, is also an oscillator.
And so you have, okay, so let's say that you have the force of light is creating gravitational force in your eye.
As, your human body, the human body, the human body, and, and the point of your observation, when you observe something,
that also has, uh, an oscillatory force.
Because it's, like, it's, like, your whole body and brain are, like, are, like, uh, combining in configuration space.
And so there is a, a sort of space-time warping happening between, um, an observation,
which is, uh, which is, uh, which is, uh, a pattern that's being encoded somewhere.
And, and, um, and, uh, the, the powerful beam of light that's being beamed through the double set experiment.
