=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0054y Receptors Inhibition Pattern
First recorded: 2021-11-12T07:58:08.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/73a860d0-4369-4b95-8f49-2c60c1d08206
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
I'm not sure if I wrote this down before, but one of the ideas that I had would be, like, the cascade of arrays.
If you could imagine them being, like, each, like, if you, like, you imagine that the, if you, okay, let's say you're indoors, and you're looking at the walls, and imagine that the walls are rendered by some of your cortical oscillators, right?
Or some of your, or some of the arrays in your brain, right?
It could be in your interinal cortical, I mean, your interinal thalamic and hypothalamic loop, right?
And it could be, like, a rendering of your walls could be perceived there.
But again, these patterns are, like, going to be ricocheting across the entire brain, right?
And so, you know, what I'm, like, actually kind of, like, imagining is that you might have different phases of the rendering of reality rendered somehow in the neocortex in terms of, like, how the bits get assembled, and then somehow they get this, like, the oscillator loop.
Of the interrenal epithalamic and thalamic, um, that loop is going to be informed by the, um, sensory data from every corridor of the brain.
And so that could be, like, a convergence point, or, like, that, okay, that goes back to the old theory.
So a long time ago, I had, I had a hypothesis that the thalamus could be, like, the, um, the theater of the mind, or the projector screen.
And the neocortex would be, like, the projector, and the thalamus would be the projector screen.
And there was an idea, there was an idea because of the idea of the hierarchy of the cortex growing back to the thalamus.
And I thought, well, maybe the thalamus is the computer screen.
But it's still, it doesn't totally, like, make sense how the thalamus could see anything since it's not doing any calculations that, of comparative scale.
I mean, it's doing, it does, it does modulate signals.
Okay, so, um, modulation means that it is, um, interfacing with signals, and it is observing and transmitting signals.
It is an oscillating unit that's observing and transmitting an oscillating body.
And it's interesting because, you know, there's all sorts of, like, you know, it's, it's interesting how there's, there's a recent study about how the human brains are dramatically different from animal brains.
And that there's a sparsity of, uh, sodium receptors, um, which, um, compared to what's in animals.
And so, the lack of sodium receptors, you know, it was argued that, okay, well, that means the brain has more energy for other things.
And that could be, that's interesting, but it's all, it's like, okay.
It's like, so, for the human brain, we have fewer sodium receptors, right?
But, maybe, but I wonder if that, if, I wonder if it's just sodium receptors.
Because, here's the thing, if it's not also, like, fewer potassium receptors.
Like, what if, what if animal, like, what I'm saying is, like, what if, what if the, the potassium receptors is pretty close between humans and animals?
But it's only the sodium receptors that are vastly reduced compared to humans and animals.
Well, what that does is it, it makes the, um, human brain far more inhibitory, uh, than the brains of animals.
And then, and then, therefore, we can learn a lot more patterns.
Like, the more inhibitions we can do, the more, so, an inhibit, an inhibit, an inhibition, an inhibition is a kind of, like, um,
um, it's kind of, it's a kind of, uh, it's a kind of transistor.
It's a kind of, um, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, not transistor.
It's a kind of, um, uh, logic gate.
All right, an inhibition is a kind of logic gate because, gosh, is this going to make sense more,
is this going to make more sense later on?
Or not?
All right, let's, let's, let's try to recap an inhibition.
Why did you say logic gate?
So if there's fewer sodium channels, then proportionally the human brain is a lot more inhibitory. Inhibitory neurons are far more valuable for complex problem solving than excitatory networks.
So you can even think of the heart as just a pure excitatory network. It just beats in a regular oscillation and never changes its oscillation.
But what happens, what you get is when you inhibit a network's oscillation, you create a cascade.
In the simplest possible case, if you just do one inhibition of a network, you've created a second pattern.
Like, if there's just one neuron that's inhibited, you've created a new pattern, a new firing pattern.
It changes the entire surface from having only one pattern to now having two patterns.
So there's the pattern before the inhibition, there's the pattern after.
So an inhibition is creating a pattern, and it ripples throughout the entire oscillatory network.
