=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0066y Book Draft Artwork
First recorded: 2021-11-07T05:20:50.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/1ffca30a-fa08-4fce-876f-4c54de1dc3bd
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
We could use AI to make a movie by finding, like, okay, so, like, the idea is that we could convert, we could take anyone's image and put it on top of someone else's image, right?
It's, like, it's, like, the idea that you could transfer one face to another. Like, it's, like, I, like, you know, like, I could smile. It learns how my movements are. My movements become mapped to the other character's movements.
And so my movements can cause the other character to move. And then there's voice synthesis, so that can copy that as well, right?
And so you can have the, um, sort of, like, a video conference, like a faked video conference, where one character will talk and take over.
So Feynman was saying that, um, there are very few problems that can be solved by analysis. And he's saying, you know, we need math to solve a lot of problems, for example.
Like, addition and subtraction.
Multiplication and division.
And, um, this is because some problems are too, uh, too difficult to solve with just, I think it's just introspection alone.
So, but, um, I don't know. I mean, I find, like, like, you know, it is possible to do math in my head.
You know, I can add, you know, two and three together and get five, right?
I can add five and ten together and get fifteen.
So, um, but it's just, like, you know, it's just, like, you know, at some point there's so much math to do that, um, it's really convenient for, to be able to have the computer do math.
So, um, I messed up. I described this incorrectly. Let me try again.
He said an oscillator is a cosine two.
Uh, cosine t. An oscillator is a cosine t.
So, I'm glad, so this is the draft version of my book.
And basically I'm showing you, like, all the different parts that I have planned, uh, to, to create this book.
Um, and that includes, like, basically transcribing, uh, audio calls and, like, and this, and then as soon as I finish, like, so you can support this project by pre-ordering my book.
Which means that after I'm finished with the book, you get, you get the draft for free.
That's what this is.
And then after I'm finished with my book, um, you get the official version of the book.
Which is, like, all the improvements that I made to the draft.
Like, all the, all the reordering of topics.
You get both. You get the draft and you get the finished version.
Which is, like, the updated version of the book.
Um, and, uh, a lot of, uh, you know, there will be some parts that maybe didn't make sense to you, uh, in the draft that suddenly become clarified, um, and I may have some new things to say in the final version of the book.
And, so, I hope that's going to be exciting for people.
So, you, you can read the draft.
You can see why I'm excited about this work.
Um, if this, this part is for free.
I want you to, if you like this, I want you to, uh, consider purchasing my book.
And, uh, if, um, uh, if you really, uh, uh, like the book, um, I'm definitely looking for artwork, um, virtual artwork, 3D artwork.
If people want to, um, collaborate, um, I am going to be, uh, showing people how to, um, make VR, uh, pages with A4.
And I'd love for you to collaborate with me to create a, a virtual, um, art exhibit that is about the concepts in this book.
I have a lot of ideas I want to share with everybody and ask people to co-create, uh, some artwork with me on your websites.
And we'll link them all together in a massive project.
Uh, we'll create our own meta, our own, like, mini metaverse that's about, about the, um, human mind and about artificial neural networks and about nerve gear.
And, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's going to be amazing.
And, um, so you have, uh, some, you have creative, um, uh, abilities.
And, uh, so I hope you, uh, you know, I mean, and, and, and so I hope, I hope that, um, like, this is, like, um, oh, and I have this new, um, idea for, um, the metaverse.
How we can have, uh, basically people visit, um, and, like, travel across these different virtual websites and see each other, but still, like, you, like, you maintain your avatar and your personal belongings and stuff in, in the metaverse.
And we're going to, we're going to do it with WebXR.
And that's through, I'm going to explain that in an upcoming article.
So, um, so that's part of, um, the, uh, this is the draft of the book.
And, um, I hope you get a sense of where I'm going with the completed book.
Uh, there's a lot more to, there's a lot to do.
Um, and, um, I just wanted to motivate everybody and, and, uh, to, I mean, I, you know, and I would definitely,
I would definitely love for people to criticize this book in any way they wish, right?
Anything that I got wrong, I want to hear it and, like, tell me about it and, like, that I'll use that to improve the book for, um, for publication.
Like, right, like, like anything you can tell me, any kind of criticism is really welcome because anything you teach me that I didn't know already,
like, I'm going to integrate the wisdom that you shared and, uh, and, you know, if it's, if it's particularly entertaining, you could get a nod, right?
Right?
So definitely please educate me on, on anything that you resonate with, that, um, that you have something to, if you have something to add, that would be great to include.
Uh, I'll give you a thank you, uh, for helping me.
So this is, like, a community book project where I'm asking everybody who wants to be a reviewer and a helper and a contributor to go ahead and, and, uh, and be a reviewer, helper, and contributor.
And the whole world is invited to do it.
Um, so that's, um, so, so everybody can, can help with the, with contributing to, to the final version.
And, um, and then, uh, so the final, final version is what I'll sell to support the book.
Um, but you get to keep the draft for free and you get to, um, you get to be a part of it.
So I hope you enjoy that.
I hope everyone enjoys that.
Um, but, uh, yeah, so, um,
I wanted to share that and, uh, so that's where I, that's what I'm going to do is I'm going to release a draft.
Um, okay, great.
Okay, bye.
