=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0065y Prefrontal Neurons Pattern Oscillator Cortex
First recorded: 2021-11-07T06:15:12.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/e7834427-45de-422e-96eb-7436ae02eac5
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So in listening to Richard Feynman, I have this idea that there's a difference in the scale of how many neurons are inhibited by the one neuron that fires.
So the neuron fires, and the neuron fire is going to be a 0, 1, 2, or 3.
But the thing is that when the neuron fires at a 3, at its peak, that is going to send the greatest amount of neurotransmitters, because more vesicles will be released.
And that will cause the potassium channels to open sooner on the inhibited neurons.
Like those, like those, like those, those are, those are going to be inhibitory synapses, right, on the same layer.
And so, um, that one neuron inhibits the rest of its own layer in a certain, in terms of what it's, like, regionally connected to.
But the scale, uh, which it, it's going to affect the, the, the, those, those neurons is either going to be, like, they're either going to be, um,
so, like, it's like, okay, it's like there's a regular amount of noise, which is the tonic noise.
And then a louder noise at scale means more neurons were inhibited.
So there's, like, either more neurons were inhibited, that's a louder noise.
And the even louder, so, I mean, that's, sorry, there's a, like, a lot, so there's, like, regular noise.
And then there's a loud noise, and then there's, like, even louder noise.
That's, like, high gamma.
And so the idea is that it's, like, almost like a confidence of a certain pattern appearing.
So a certain pattern appears, if there's high confidence, then it's, then a lot more is inhibited from that one neuron.
And if there's, like, there's, like, you know, some confidence, then, um, and a smaller number, uh, of, of neurons are inhibited.
Right?
Because less neurotransmitters are, less vesicles are released.
And so, um, that the neurons are less inhibited at that point.
Um, and, uh, and so this allows to have, this allows for patterns to have varying levels of frequency.
Right?
And, and so, um, since, um, so this, so in one sense, like, additional, like,
if there's more than one neurons that fire off in a layer, then potentially there are, like, um, more of that layer is, like, blacked out.
Right?
Like, a much bigger area is blacked out than it could be just with one in it.
That's, like, it's, like, um, that is combining two, that would be the effect of, like, combining two smaller patterns into a larger scale pattern.
That's when you get to what I was calling about, like, the television rendering effect.
When you're combining different, um, pixels together, like, to create an image.
Right?
And so, what you have with a sparse distributed representation, um, in a self-aware, like, we can look at the pictures of a sparse distributed representation with Dementa,
but in a self-aware network, the, there's, it's not on or off.
It's, it's, um, it's, uh, there's always a tonic firing, and so whenever there's an off, that is actually, like, a distinction between on, and bright and brightest.
Like, there's four different levels of distinction in a self-aware network, because there's a tonic, there's, like, a tonic pattern, uh, when the, when the, when the network is active.
There's, like, there's, like, a tonic pattern that's constantly, um, forming a collective array, and that is also, um, so the array is embedded inside the timing, the timed firing of neurons as the tonic pattern.
That is the array, which is conscious of changes to the array, because, um, like the fireflies, the entire array is sharing data, it's rippling, it's dissipating the, the differences as they occur.
So, differences come in, and it dissipates the differences across the entire array, because of the, the principles of oscillation, the same way, the same sort of principles that, that cause bugs to oscillate together.
Light bugs to oscillate together. And the same principles that cause, um, two pendulums in the same room to become in sync. Um, and so they are basically, because of the large oscillators, are receiving novel patterns from the small oscillators, and because of the principles of oscillators, they're causing that energy to dissipate.
They're causing the novel oscillations, they're causing the novel oscillations, the novel firing, the bright and brighter, and they inhibit it to return to a tonic firing rate.
Um, and they do this the way that, um, and they do this the way that oscillators work. The large oscillator absorbs the smaller one.
And gradually, so that means that the novel firing is, um, a phasic, the phasic firing is, uh, a resonator, or a decaying oscillator.
And the oscillator, and the oscillator is almost like a harmonic oscillator, in that, um, it, uh, has more regularity, and, you know, it stays at, like, the alpha frequency.
That that is, um, that that regularity is about, uh, like, if you see in the alpha frequency, there's, like, a lot of different levels of alpha, because those different levels of alpha represent the phase field, uh, being, uh, changed by inhibition patterns and firing patterns.
They're defining the depth of the phase field that defines your reality, and that's where your reality is. It's in the, it's in the, it's in the, the, the changes of the phase field, of the alpha pattern.
And, and, and of course, other, you know, that's in the sensory input areas, but then later on, your reality is in the delta pattern, and the theta, and, and somewhere else is in the theta pattern.
And, and, and, and, and, and, and it's in the, it's really in the contrast between, um, the, the basic firing patterns and the, the resonating contrast, because patterns resonate in the alpha frequency, in the beta frequency, in the theta and the gamma frequency.
But the amount of possible resonation is, is a different scale, which, which allows different, um, levels of focus.
Like, the slower delta can have a bigger, uh, scale focus in one sense.
But it's also, um, well, it's really a lot slower than sensory input data.
um but it's but it's it's bigger picture it's look it's it's a higher amplitude so it's it's
more networked it's when the network comes together at the highest levels and the delta frequency but
yeah so but think of your reality like when you look around like when you walk outside in your city
you're inside the alpha frequency in a sense you're being your your perspective on reality
it's being rendered inside the alpha frequency and the lower uh reasons of your cortex the visual stuff
in the visual cortex the auditory stuff and and there's an audio audio cortex or auditory cortex
and then um you have uh your taste and smell are going to your um your somatosensory cortex
and then you have your grisatory cortex is going into an interesting circuit that that goes first
to your your um temporal lobes and then uh it splits in two different directions part of it
goes to your thalamus and then the olfactory cortex which is the second uh uh primary uh which is the
which is the secondary olfactory cortex and then part of it goes from the the temporal lobes to the
olfactory lobes um and again this the in this time is it's going it's sleeping the thalamus it's going
directly from the the temporal lobes to the olfactory lobe so it goes in two paths so this
there's a circuit that goes uh and then actually it also goes through a third path because it also
goes to the amygdala and the internal cortex and then the hippocampus but the uh but it's
interesting there's this sort of like circuit that goes through the thalamus and also directly
to the olfactory cortex and then meets back up the clear and then and that olfactory cortex of course
connects to the thalamus to uh to the thalamus to a part of the thalamus right and all the senses have
path have do have pathways through the thalamus all of them and it's interesting like you know
people say that the the prefrontal cortex is not a sensory input um but the axons of the
the axons that are connected to the there was a recent paper in 2020 that was saying that the axons
of the um that that are associated with with the signals that come from
the nose that they go throughout the prefrontal cortex and the prefrontal cortex is the primary
sensory input area for for the nose right so it's like all this time they were saying that it wasn't
but it actually kind of is so it's like the um like everything goes to the um the thalamus first
except for olfactory which goes to the neocortex before going to the thalamus before going back to the
neocortex right so there's there's there's something slightly different happening with with the sense of
smell but it but it allows basically for the whole brain to basically be a primary sensory cortex
um yeah
