=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0075y Conscious Representations
First recorded: 2021-11-05T02:14:48.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/91ec3f3d-5223-4db4-9a31-ddb66bd9cd5c
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Hmm, self-aware networks. Fuck.
So, we have self-aware networks.
We have...
Alright, so, um, self-aware networks, we have the neurophysics of consciousness, the math and physics of...
of, of, and, um, the, uh, biological functions involved in the human brain's production of consciousness.
Um, how it works.
And then, uh, we're going to talk about brain-computer interfaces.
Uh, the ones that I know about, the ones that I am, um, imagining that we can build.
Um, and, um, then, uh, we're going to talk about, um, uh, uh, self-aware networks, or, uh, what, you know, some people imagine when they say the words, uh, artificial general intelligence.
We're going to talk about how machines can be conscious, how we can produce consciousness in a computer.
We're going to talk about, uh, how, um, how we can connect our brains together with machine brains.
What, what, you know, how we might interact with, with AI.
Uh, how we might bring our minds into the matrix to meet, uh, sentient AI in a virtual form.
And we can bring our, you can see there's good examples of this with Sword Art Online and Ogma and, uh, and, um, uh, NerveGear.
And, uh, there's this, um, augmented reality, uh, spinoff of, I don't want to, I don't know if spinoff is the right word,
but there's, there's another, uh, series that seems to take place in the same universe as Sword Art Online.
But it's in a different, uh, different set of characters.
And exactly, if there's any connection between the characters and either of the stories,
besides the fact that they seem to take place in the same world, I, I don't know that that's been revealed yet.
So, um, I don't think it has.
But, um, but that would be, that'd be cool for fans, for fans of both.
Uh, I'll, I'll get the name of it, uh, when I put the book together.
Put the name in there.
I definitely want to make sure that I have a page that's sort of, like,
I don't just want to, like, do, like, a one-line reference to my favorite sci-fi.
I want to actually, like, um, describe a little bit about what, so,
amazing about, like, you know, like, for example, like, Commander Data and the holodeck.
Um, I want to talk about David Brin's The Kiln People.
Because that was just, like, one of the coolest things that I read that I was just amazed by.
Um, and it was so neat to meet David Brin, also.
Uh, I got to interview him.
Um, and, um, you know, uh, the, I would like to also, um, talk about, let's see.
Um, I want to talk about, okay, let's pause.
So, yeah, the neurophysics of consciousness and then how we can, you know, read and write to this consciousness
and how we can change thoughts, how we can create, um, artificial representations,
like, basically augmented reality and virtual reality, uh, by, uh, through brain, through a combination of brain, uh, imaging,
um, what's it called, uh, brain stimulation and, um, and, uh, there's a, there's a process where you combine both.
It's called closed-loop therapy where you combine brain imaging with stimulation.
So, you are sort of monitoring what you're doing step-by-step and that allows for, uh, potentially a, um, um, um, a two-way signal transmission.
So, you can, you can basically link the brain to, um, another brain because you're basically, what you need to capture
are, um, um, phase changes and, and, um, and, uh, you either, you either, you either need to capture, like, the, the, uh, phase changes between, um, uh, between cells.
Um, or you need to, um, and sort of create, like, a, a model of the phase field.
Um, based upon your sensor data.
Um, or you could try to, um, monitor the, um, yeah, you could try to monitor just, like, the, um, the, you could monitor the phase changes basically by monitoring the size of the neurons with either, um, electrical impedance tomography or, or open-waters functional nephro-espectroscopy.
Um, if you could monitor the, the neurons changing size because they, because when they fire, they actually expand its size.
And that, that causes, um, that's part of the process through which, um, they're expelling, they're expelling, uh, like, extra energy in a sense.
Um, it's, and, uh, so they're sending out, uh, they're dissipating their energy along their, their, uh, a branch that sends, that sends a little bit of their energy to, um, uh, the other nodes.
And, and so each node is going to basically, um, collect, uh, a, a sequence of knocks or is going to collect some amount of energy.
And then, and then, um, uh, but it's also, and then at some point it reaches a threshold and it's going to, um, pass on everything that it's, that it's, that it has been collecting in a distributed way.
Okay. Okay. And, um, the, uh, it matters, like, like, basically this is the process of, like, um, uh, oscillators that are either, uh, moving towards, um, you know, synchrony or they're, or towards a, towards a, a synchronous space state or, um, sort of, like, um, reverse, like, like the, like the, um,
they can be in a chaotic state, uh, or there can be, like, uh, you know, basically, you know, arguing that there is, um, there's different kinds of patterns and that the different kinds of patterns, um, that are happening are, um, defining the, the fabric of consciousness that you, um, are seeing when you look around, when you look at a fence,
when you look at a sidewalk, when you look at a brick wall, when you look at, um, a tree, when you look at a car, um, everything you see in every direction you see it, like the material, the paint, all of those, um, are, are representations, uh, those are learned patterns.
All of those representations are learned patterns.
Everything you perceive is a learned pattern that arrays of cells learned, and then they created a representation of that learned pattern, and then they showed that representation to, um, another layer of cells,
and that other layer of cells made, um, a representation of what they, uh, of what they, uh, of what they, as an array, received, and, um, and so these patterns, uh, basically, um,
they're, um, they're different, uh, perspectives on the patterns that you encountered are going to be basically, um, learned and played back by, um, uh, different areas of your cortex.
Um, you could, um, you could, I love Jack Gallant's work when he talks about basically the semantic map that he has, uh, that his lab has, um, brought into public awareness through, um, the, uh, the use of, uh, MRI machines,
and correlating, basically, uh, uh, MRI data to, uh, data that, uh, that was, uh, shown to a participant, uh, on video.
So the participant would watch a video that would, in which several images would be played in the course of the video,
and their, their, um, the signals in their blood would be, um, uh, recorded by the computer.
So they basically created a spatial map of, of blood flow changes, uh, in the brain, and, and the blood flow,
so every time a neuron fires, it's expelling energy, it's using up oxygen and, and, uh, to, uses up oxygen to, to re, uh, sort of recatalyze ATP,
which is the energy molecule of cells, and it uses up that energy, and now it needs new energy, and needs new oxygen.
So, so, so, um, so the blood will, will bring, like, D-ribose, and, uh, and, uh, I don't know if I'm getting this right,
but I actually have to double check it, but the blood will bring, uh, a new supply of the components of ATP, uh, adenosine, uh, triphosphate,
and, um, and the blood will bring oxygen, which will re-catalyze the, the ATP when it's needed.
Um, and this is, um, so the movement of the neuron, and the fact that, that it's, it's, it's, um, I don't know, it's, it's,
I have to look into this exactly, but the, but the, the basic principle is that blood flows where it's needed, right?
Anywhere you need blood, the blood's gonna flow.
So every time a cell uses up energy, blood flows to it, right?
So, uh, that means that every time a neuron fires, that, um, this is too much for me.
Every time a neuron fires, um, you're going to get into a situation where, um, uh, you know, an imposter.
