=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0073y Waves Neurons Pattern
First recorded: 2021-11-05T04:30:37.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/1601a2a6-9dd1-40e9-b7bf-763d952fce92
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
I've been so enthusiastic about Mark Zuckerberg's metaverse presentation and what I'm seeing happen in the crypto world.
Because basically, you know, my takeaway is that, you know, Mark Zuckerberg really is bringing together, he's on board with the vision of crypto and the metaverse.
And he's bringing, he's going to, he likes the idea that you can have your NFTs from one game or from a trading card game.
You can bring your trading card NFTs into anywhere you want.
It's like having your own personal storage that can go with you in the metaverse.
And that includes, like, your avatar, your clothes, your apparel, your watch, your hat, your glasses.
Everything could be stored, basically.
And so my proposal is that it gets, it gets, the first, the first version of it will store it with, in a canvas with Explicate Web.
And that's like the, so you visit your locker first.
And then you turn your locker into your wallet.
So you get to, your locker is like your personal computer that is becomes, it's like your first layer into the web.
And then you visit other WebExar experiences that are, you know, like multi, multi-user experiences.
They could be different kinds of experiences.
But they're like different worlds created by different people.
But you get to bring you, with you, on the, into other people's experiences.
And so the, so the metaverse is kind of, is, is almost really kind of like ideally situated for the web, where a website is like this world that you can, that you can walk inside.
And, and I really love the, the sort of non-linear geometry, sorry, the non-Euclidean geometry of the T for God application.
You can try an App Lab with Oculus, with Oculus Quest.
And that is so cool because basically it takes your, your real space that you can map out with your Oculus Quest.
And it turns it into a path that you can, that you can walk endlessly because it just basically, when you get to one end of it and you look around the corner, it has completely redecorated the space.
It's moved everything around.
So the furniture gets rearranged every time you, you walk through a portal and so to speak.
And so basically like you turn around the corner and suddenly the geometries of the room is totally different.
And it takes you in like, you know, in different weird windy paths so that it never gets old.
So you don't, you forget which direction you're facing.
And so you can sort of like walk around these corridors, like, and like squeezing around these like hallways and, and, and going through doors and like infinitely entering new spaces.
And it feels like you're just exploring and it's so wonderful.
And I think that that would be perfect for like the, the metaverse and WebXR.
If we basically created, uh, if the website was basically like a 3d construct that you could walk through it, um, or you could optionally teleport through it, right.
If you wanted to, um, or you could, you could optionally like just press forward and you would, and you would be pushed through it.
Like, um, like when you're in a fighting, a shooting game.
Um, but I think that shooting games would be so much better if like multiplayer shooting games or tag games or dodgeball games
or tennis games would be so much more interesting with the T of God dynamic, because that like, it brings you one step closer to the experience of being in a VR arcade where, um, where your, your actual environment can, um, add to your sense of immersion.
Like a door could be a door, a physical door with, with Oculus's semantic segmentation can become like a portal to another reality, right?
That could become like the, the door to the elevator on the empire, um, strikes back, right?
And, and I'm referring to like the, the star Wars, the void experience, um, by that, which was amazing.
Cause you get, you get to touch physical things and open physical doors and go through in like, when you get in the elevator, like there's a, there's a motor under the floor in the elevator that just shakes.
And that, and that shakes as you see the elevator going up, right?
So you feel like, Oh my gosh, I'm actually going up, but you know, it just, there's just something underneath you that's shaking and you're seeing in VR that it's going up.
And then you have to like, there's certain times when you have to, um, uh, you have to carry, uh, some, some sort of, uh, I don't know if, I don't know.
I think you had a blaster or something and you had to shoot, uh, the starship, the, the star troopers.
Oh, wait, is that what it's?
No, the, the, uh, you had to shoot these, um, these, uh, these, uh, these, uh, star Wars villains, right?
The, the, the bad guys from star Wars, the Imperial, um, army, which is just, um, which is just, um, sad that there's this like intense, painful conflict between two groups of people that they have to shoot each other.
And so it's, star Wars is very sad because there's a lot of conflict.
It's war.
It's a movie about war and, um, uh, and Jedis, Jedis who are, uh, the wisest of the warriors.
But they're still fighting, right?
So, yeah, there's a lot of conflict between the, the, the, the, the Sith, the Sith are the, uh, the bad.
They're like, I would, they're, they're like Jedis, but they're bad.
They're selfish instead of unselfish, right?
And, um, which is, uh, it, it's, it's, it's, it's just, it's about this, like, it's about, um, the, the con, it's, it's about the, the, the,
it's trying to describe, like, the conflict inside the, um, the, the, the character, the protagonist, um, in terms of being tempted to, um, do dark things, to go to the dark side.
And then, um, but also the, it's about the idea of redemption, about being tempted to go to the dark side, but also the doubt, but also to, it's about deciding to, um, or trying to find a path to stay on the light side.
Which is where happier things happen, right?
If you're on the side of the light, then the, then the, then happier things happen.
And that's kind of, that's kind of the, the story.
Um, and, um, so, um, it's, it is, it's, it's, it's, it's, so it's, there's, um, there's an element of social programming that, to it.
But it's also, um, sort of, it's like a transcendent narrative, which means that, uh, narratives that are, that have some, I, some, uh, structural similarity in, in their sequence or in, in the, uh, in the types of events that happen in the duration of the story.
Um, in terms of, like, the, the hero going through various different stages, meeting people who are helpful, uh, you know, having, you know, to face serious challenges.
Sometimes it's like three challenges.
Um, I, I'm not the expert on, on this, um, on this mythology, but that would be the topic of, of, of, of Star Wars and Joseph Campbell.
But it's also, like, this, it's, it's about the, um, in some sense, Star Wars is also about the, um, the struggle between, um, uh, the, the empire would, would represent sort of, like, the fascists, uh, who are, they, they've, they've, um, it's, it's a, it's a fascist dictatorship.
Um, and that was, uh, sort of George Lucas's, um, the way George Lucas, his, his rep, his, like, when his cortex, like, understood the political landscape from his perspective during the years of Nixon, he saw Nixon as basically, um, the inspiration for, for Darth Vader.
Um, and he, and he just saw, like, this, this, he saw a man who was driven to be selfish and, and, and bad things happened, um, through this super powerful selfish guy, right?
And, uh, and, um, so, it, it, it's just a, um, oh, yeah, so, I mean, so, this was about the, um, the metaverse is, is that, um, you know, with 3D simulation,
romantic segmentation, we can transform, the computer can understand everything in your house, so it could, it could creatively transform, um, anything in your house into, uh, into something that would help, um, you know, like, for example, like, the computer could, could, could, uh, you know, see that you have a cup board, and it could create, like, a game, uh, a game event.
Like, uh, the, so basically, like, the game event is, like, the, you know, the computer, there's a computer program that looks for a cup board, and then a game event is created, right?
Because it identifies that, oh, these, these 3D pixels belong to a cup board, let's open up the cup board, and, um, and, uh, the user will get this, um, potion or something.
And it will fly out of the virtual cup board, so the user doesn't actually put their hands into the cup board.
But now, also, the computer can see what's in the cup board, and if it's something like, um, like glasses, then nothing's, like, in the, you know, computer might, might, uh, I don't know, make it look like a brick wall.
Because if it looks like a brick wall, you won't want to put your hands there, right?
So the computer can do recognition like that, and create, like, uh, it can learn to interact with, with your environment in a way to turn your environment into an experience for you.
And, uh, it can basically, it's, it would operate like a search function, like, it looks for what, what's there, and then, um, it classifies what's there in terms of its compatibility with the number of, of, um, either pre-built or, um, basically, uh, you know, generated with gamma synthesis or, or interpolation between other pre-built experiences.
So it can creatively generate spontaneous, spontaneous new, um, experiences, uh, that are, you know, they're, they're safe in terms of, you know, fitting within certain classes of safety parameters in terms of, like, what, uh, is the range of variation in terms of creativity and what's not, right?
Like, like, creativity, you could define it to creativity in terms of, like, there could be color variation, and if you wanted to.
Or, like, you, like, you can define the parameters of, like, where, like, where there's a lot of variation that's possible, and where there's very little variation that's possible.
Like, you wouldn't want to, uh, ever, like, um, you could, you could have, like, you, you still want to kind of represent hard things as hard things.
Like, a cupboard would be good as a rock.
It would not be good to turn a cupboard into a pillow, because a person is, if a person bangs their head against a pillow, which they might do, they're, um, they're going to get hurt.
So, you always have to represent, um, you know, objects that fit certain classes.
Like, once it's correctly identified as a cupboard by the computer, it has to be, um, skinned with things that are, um, that, if they're procedurally generated by some sort of, like, a GAM thesis program.
Um, or, you know, um, some sort of, like, you know, it's like shape, it's like the reverse of shape completion, where, like, it can take away part of the shape and make it look like, um, like, it could make it look like there's, it could replace the cupboard with a digital cupboard.
But then it could, then, um, it could have the cupboard fly open, but only digitally, and, like, a dead body could roll out or something.
But nothing's actually falling out.
And in that sense, um, like, it can do things, like, if, like, if the, if the dead arm falls on the floor, it's going to fall on the floor, uh, like, like, the digital, the digital one, right?
They fell out of the cupboard, this is a video game, and so it falls on the floor, um, but it's, like, um, it's not going to fall in an area that would be unsafe for you as a human being to, um, to bend down and, um, pick up.
So, basically, we're identifying the room semantically so that we can, um, have certain classes of functions, um, be generated by the neural network, um, to, um, to create, to create an adventure for you.
And that adventure could even, like, at some point in the future, that those adventures could be so, so complex that, um, you're, like, you're cooking food with, with, with a virtual chef and real food at the same time, right?
Or you can, like, you can see the real food, you can see the real ingredients, and you can measure stuff, and everything is safe, and you get, like, basically, it's extra safe.
Like, everything is, um, is, sort of, like, like, your sensory augmentation, your sensory augmentation of the environment, um, is enhancing your vision, right?
It's, like, you know how, like, in human vision, we're seeing, uh, this perception of color, even though there's, the, the, the argument is that color's not really there.
It's just, um, it's, um, it's, um, the color red is, is, like, color is defined by its, it's, uh, by its, by what's around it, by its, its phase field, by its, by its, its different, its, its difference in the phase field, right?
So, color is a different frequency, but the frequency is, um, to your brain, it's just a difference relative to everything else.
And so, your brain has this, um, sort of, like, uh, mental map, uh, of, of, of functions that are, um, sort of, sort of, um, rendering color based upon the, uh, comparison of, uh, uh, contrasts in a phase field, right?
So, and, and, and so, the comparison of contrast in a phase field is a, is a pattern that can be detected, and so that's what it needs to be generated.
And, um, that comparison of contrast in a phase field, um, is also, um, it's, the, the brain is so precise in how it's measuring this phase field that it's able to, to, um, combine multiple different represent,
and it's able to learn from multiple variations on the representations of, of, of different perspectives of incoming sensory, uh, data, and, uh, and, uh, and, uh, and also your, your movements.
And, and, uh, and it's able to, uh, basically, um, do, what I call a neural tomography, um, and where it creates patterns basically by combining patterns and looking for the comment and, and noticing the comment links between patterns.
And, and these patterns get learned by large groups of neurons simultaneously that are connected through accident terminals, through accident, through, um, accident terminals.
Uh, and, uh, so, like, basically, like, um, the, the mass amount of connectivity means that basically, like, patterns get learned over and over again in, in layers by many different layers of neurons, by many different sets of neurons.
And this allows patterns to be represented by, um, sort of, like, um, sort of, like, any neurons in the brain can represent any pattern at some point.
Because, um, and then patterns just basically flow from one region to another, um, through the transmission of, of, of, of phase, of phase changes.
And, um, and so that's, and that, and that sense patterns roll across the brain all over the brain if there's phase changes.
And, and, and, and, and because every time, um, the phase, it's just like, you know, when, like, think about a chemical phase.
When, like, a chemical phase is, like, in the water, like, like, um, uh, something is, is transmitted from one oscillating, uh, molecule.
And then the, the next one, uh, receives that transmission and, uh, renders it fresh for the next one after that.
And so you have this, like, um, cascading sequence of, uh, basically, um, of a pattern that is, of a wave pattern that's flowing through the molecules.
Because they're taking turns, um, copying the pattern that they just saw.
They're basically, like, reacting, um, like an excitatory network, uh, to just, like, you know, a pattern comes.
Oh, I'm going to fire as soon as the seat, as soon as it, as soon as it touches me, then I'm going to create the pattern.
And then it's like, you know, like, like, when you do the wave in, in the, um, uh, at the stadium.
And everyone stands up and they do this wave thing with their hands in the air.
And they, but they, they, you do it in, when, in a turn, like in a row.
So the wave travels across the stadium because people stand up in a sequence.
They wait for the, for the wave to get to them before they stand up.
And then the person next to them stands up.
And then the person next to them stands up.
But before it got to you, it went through, like, you know, the person on the end.
And then it goes from one end all the way to the other end.
And then sometimes it goes back again.
And sometimes they throw some beach balls out there.
And there's loud music.
And everyone gets excited because it's, it's a big party.
And that, and that idea, um, that idea, uh, you basically, you need to basically, um, you could sort of have, like, every person would sort of, like, so basically we need to, um, create a pattern that is, like, scale invariant.
It's, it's sort of like, um, or, so that, I guess the idea of a scale invariant pattern is that, um, the microscopic pattern, um, becomes, uh, sort of, uh, a, a re-representation of a, of, um, like patterns get magnified to different scales.
Like, like incoming sensory patterns, they get replicated at, at microscopic scales.
But then, um, uh, larger scale patterns, like, um, like the, like the whole array that is, uh, you know, maybe the V1, uh, cortex or the, or the, um, I don't know, the S1 cortex.
Like, whatever, like the first, first row of the cortex is going to be renting, uh, going to be receiving the, uh, sensory data from the thalamus.
And, um, and then it's going to, you know, in the primary sensory cortices, I mean.
And then it's going to travel from the bottom of the, um, uh, of the cortex in each column, uh, towards the top.
And, uh, I really recommend the, the, the, the book, A Thousand, uh, Brains by Jeff Hawkins, because he goes into a lot about how, uh, about, about Numentis, um, speculation about, about, uh, how the cortical column is actually sort of like, um, that, uh, cortical columns represent, like, like,
it might represent, like, a coffee cup, that's his example, uh, or, you know, like, a, a lighter.
You can see a lighter, and it represents the orientation, like, one column.
Like, imagine you have a column that's representing, imagine you have a lot of columns that are representing, maybe a thousand columns that are representing the lighter.
But some of those columns are going to be in the, um, uh, the visual cortex, and some in the, in the somatosensory cortex, and some of the versions of the lighter are going to be in the audio cortex.
And there'll be lots of different, uh, versions of this pattern that just get, like, repeated across different parts of, of the cortex.
And then basically, they, it's like, and, and, you know, you have in an oscillator, like a, like a cortical column oscillator, you'll have basically, like, a lot of neurons that are, um, that, uh, that are connected to a lot of other neurons.
In, in, in, in, in, in a, in a way that means that, uh, one neuron is, um, its receptive field is, is a sensor array of sorts.
At the same time that, as a group, it's a sensor array, like, that overlaps other, overlaps with other sensor arrays.
It's like, it's like, it's like every, um, neuron is a sensor array that is, that is transmitting, um, a, uh, a signal.
And the signal is, uh, is a change in a phase state.
And that means that, uh, collectively, that, um, uh, a whole array, a whole row, a whole, um, you know, uh, layer of a cortical column can collectively represent a pattern.
Which is where, um, the phase state consists of neurons in four different possible states.
It's, like, inhibited, tonic firing, low phasic firing, and high phasic firing.
And, um, and this means that we have this, like, uh, sort of four-bit phase state picture, um, that, um, can exist with, you know, four, basically there's, uh, there's, there's, there's, I imagine there's, like, um,
um, it's, it's possible you could describe, um, a, um, a phase field with, with the, in the electric, in the, in the electric field, uh, and a phase field in the magnetic field.
Uh, there's, uh, a phase field in terms of, like, soliton mechanical waves or audio waves, longitudinal audio waves, um, and also a phase field in terms of, uh, chemical waves.
So, um, you know, uh, someone in, in the Neural Lace podcast, uh, season one, episode three, I talked to Andrew, uh, uh, Watson.
And he, uh, suggested that there's a metabolotropic brain and an ionotropic brain, which is, is, is, is, is to, uh, basically, um, talk about the, uh, the, the, there's a receptors that, that are for, uh, ions.
And then there's a receptor for other, there's receptors for other kinds of, um, uh, like, for, for, for other kinds of cell, cellular communication.
And, um, but you can send waves through liquids, right?
Like, right, the ocean is, is, uh, is a waving thing, right?
And, but the idea is that, you know, like the wave, like a chemical wave, it's like, um, the, it's, it's, uh, it's one molecule is, like, knocking on another molecule.
And the pattern of that one molecule gets transferred to the next one, and then the next one, and the next one, and, and so that, so it just propagates.
And it doesn't, um, it doesn't, uh, dissipate, uh, very well, because at that level, the physics are, uh, of that, of, uh, chemical waves are, are a little bit, um, counterintuitive.
So, it's, it's different from, uh, you know, some waves, they dissipate over, over distances, right?
Um, but the point is that these, uh, the brain has the ability to make waves and see waves, and it has, the ability, the brain has the ability to, uh, make really highly configured, uh, information containing, uh, phase changes that it then detects, that other arrays in the brain detect.
So, like, imagine that, like, one, um, one part of the brain is making pictures for another part of the brain, and then, so the front is seeing the, the front pictures, and then behind it is, the, behind that is, it's, that's seeing pictures at the front made.
And that's, that's sort of like, like, I'm just, like, um, describing it in a visual way, but, but, uh, you could apply it as the sound.
You could imagine, like, the, there's the front sounds, and then there's, there's representations of sounds.
I would love it if it turned out that, that, that, that audio in the brain was really, um, um, sort of like, like, like, I like the idea that you have, like, four different consciousnesses happening simultaneously, and one of them is an audio consciousness, and that is just made out of mechanical soliton waves, um, and, uh, longitudinal, um, acoustic waves, right?
And that are also solitons, and basically I'm talking about, like, solitons in terms of magnetic solitons, and, and electric solitons as well.
So you have, like, and so the idea, like, I imagine, like, that light moves very fast, and so you might want to have the electric waves for visual, um, a lot of visual stuff, right?
Maybe, maybe, and so, like, maybe EEG is really good for, um, EEG signals are, are really, uh, uh, I mean, this is, this is weird speculation, like, I don't, I don't know, because, because, you know, because technically, there are, here's the thing.
But technically, any of the mediums could represent any kind of data.
It's, it's, it's, it's the idea that the, um, the patterns themselves are aligned, so they're all, all four different, uh, uh, soliton fields that I'm describing are, are going to be happening simultaneously, and they're all going to be doing the same thing at the same time.
So they're all going to be perfectly aligned, so there's not, it's not like they're having different thoughts at different times, um, but it is interesting that, um, that you're going to get to a situation where, um, you are going to alter our existence.
