=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0087y Oscillator Memory Pings
First recorded: 2021-11-01T02:42:18.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/741d9fe8-75be-4f0d-9ba7-e0f8e91dbd5f
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
I suspect that the oscillation might have in the brain, in the power band, like the alpha power band, that it might form something like a Bose-Einstein condensate.
But regardless of whether it does or it doesn't, it's operating as a single band, a perceptive band, a phase field that can see an observer inside the man, or the woman, or the person.
One memory pings another memory. One memory sends out a ping, it's an electric signal, and it signals a channel, and it pings other related memories to expect that they might fire next.
So it's the memory ricochets around the brain, pinging, pinging, uh, other parts of the brain, and if, if they're expecting to fire as long as they're misfiring, then they start to get ready.
It can alert entire sequences of the brain, like, long-term sequences, about what to expect, because it ricochets everywhere.
It gets, uh, it gets, uh, repeated, it gets, uh, repeated, but in a way that, um, changes the picture at each end of all, slightly, adds something to the picture at each end of all.
So you have two, you have two or more complete and whole distinct memories that will interact with each other, because one will ping the other constantly.
So long-term oscillating memories, um, LTP, so the memory sticks around for a long time, I just, it just, um, I, there, I have to learn the mechanism of playback.
Because it seems like if you learn a memory, um, the next day, it's that, it's that once, it's that you can have a memory that's learned, which becomes synaptic change, and that affects the future firing.
That synaptic change ensures that what happened before is likely, is more likely to happen again.
So if you get a memory that triggers a similar synaptic change, um, it's going to eventually affect that oscillator, and update the, update the, the memory awaits in that oscillator.
And if it happens enough times, then, um, then, um, the memory that keeps, uh, oscillating, uh, oscillating, uh, because of the synaptic changes, converges with the new memory that also is oscillating at a different time of the day, in, in a way that affects a similar area, and causes, um, long-term oscillatory changes there.
But memories are essentially, um, the replay of memory is essentially, um, sort of like a, I would guess it's sort of like a random simulation of a cortical area.
Not, not random, but, what makes it non-random is that the, um, the neurons that fired previously are the ones that are going to play back, because their paths were the ones,
the paths that were, were taken are the ones that, um, are more likely to be taken again, because things change via the channels of excitement and the channels of inhibition.
Then, you had receptivity growing during the channels of activation, and, uh, inhibition growing during the, uh, in the, uh, direction of inhibitory circuits.
So, I need to know a little bit more about how the hippocampus replace memories.
So, previous memories will create attractors for their own recurrence, um, because the whole thing is an oscillator, so they'll just reoccur over time.
They're shaping their likelihood, uh, of, of, of the timing of their firing.
They're reshaping the timing of the network.
So that it, it re-fires in particular patterns, if given random simulation, such as a surge of dopamine.
