=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0081y Holodeck Mind
First recorded: 2021-11-02T03:29:17.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/679d7f40-769f-4553-b679-7e23242f56fb
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Okay, when I start the chapter on Artificial Sentience, I want to talk both about the origins of the holodeck and Commander Data from Star Trek.
According to Wikipedia, the Star Trek holodeck was inspired by Gene Dolgoff, who owned the Holography Laboratory in New York City.
And then the Star Trek creator Gene Roddenberry met Dolgoff in 1973.
This actually ties into the discussion of using holography or reversing the refraction of light for medical imaging, which is what Open Water is doing, combining near-infrared spectroscopy with ultrasound.
And holography.
And the other point is that it also ties into, you know, how would you present a light field to a human being?
There's the, you know, what is a light field?
The light field and the receptive field and the inceptive field concepts.
The light field labs, the light field that's being worked on in, and in California, light field, basically like a, a room with, with, with panels.
And each of the panels, and each of the panels has basically a spherical pixel, so that the image that's created is different based upon your, on your, based upon your head position.
Because your head, based upon your eye position.
So your eye position relative to the spherical, tiny spherical pixels determines which side of the image you're going to see.
So the spherical picture, the spherical pictures divide up what that image on display would look like from each perspective.
And they're rendering all the perspectives available for that image for the different eye positions that are possible in that room.
This means, uh, from above and below, from to the left and to the right, uh, where your eye is, where each of your eyes are, is going to determine the view, the view, viewing angle, that you have on the image inside this, uh, screen of spherical pictures.
And this allows them to basically, um, stack an entire wall from floor to ceiling in every direction, um, with, uh, with, uh, with, uh, sort of like, think of it as, as, uh, virtual reality without the glasses.
Because your viewpoint on the 3D light field, um, changes based upon your, uh, eye position in the room.
And so you can, uh, get the closest experience to what holograms, uh, might, might, it's probably the closest possible experience to, to having holograms right in front of you.
That you can also interact with through, um, body tracking, finger tracking, uh, so, and, and other effects.
So as you reach out, uh, as if you were going to touch, uh, one of the images that you're seeing with this, uh, sphere, this, uh, these spherical pixels in this, in this, in these, in this room of, of three ears.
The images, um, the, your, your, your hand position, your finger position, that is also being tracked in 3D so that you can feel like you can interact with these, um, 3D projections, projections, uh, with, with the illusion of these 3D projections.
It's not actually projecting out of the screen, uh, so it's not, um, but it, it gives you the real feeling of a hologram because it's really, um, a hologram that you can interact with.
And this is getting us sort of close to, um, uh, uh, basically Star Trek's holodeck.
But, um, but I also think it's, it's, it's important to bring up and, into the concept of, uh, artificial sentience.
Because in essence, what I'm arguing is that, um, the, that your, your brain is combining, uh, all of these pattern representations together to create, effectively, like, a personal holodeck.
That's a simulation of your, uh, perspective and your interactions, of an organism's perspective and organism's interactions with their, with their location in space.
And the reason I go, will go, will go with so far as to say that your perception of reality is like a holodeck and your brain is like a holodeck that is rendering computer graphics like, like the light field or like virtual reality, um, interactive computer graphics.
Is, is, is, is because I have, um, I, I, I know that there is a long history of people being able to take, um, psychoactive medications like ayahuasca and DMT, LSD, mushrooms, that can alter your visual perception of the world.
They can make you, um, uh, uh, see patterns where, uh, there are no patterns, um, in the case of, like, LSD and, and mushrooms.
And in the case of DMT and ayahuasca, they can change your physical surroundings, at least the appearance of your physical surroundings.
Um, one experience that I had, um, with DMT, which I, which was, which I smoked, um, I saw the, I perceived, actually I have to say, I perceived the walls to my left and to my right basically sort of, um, disappearing.
And in their place, there was this sort of, like, infinite corridor to each of my sides.
So, when I had, uh, tried this, I was in a room that was about eight feet by eight feet.
And, um, the result was that I saw a, uh, I experienced the, the, the walls of the, of the room to my left and to my right disappearing.
Um, and in addition to that, I saw, uh, Christmas elves, um, and they just appeared on the walls out of nowhere.
And I had sort of, like, um, like, uh, Christmas wallpaper and that wasn't there before I had smoked it.
And so, I had this expansive feeling of space that I, um, that I could see out of the corners of my eye.
And I didn't, uh, turn my head because, uh, when I moved my head it would break the, uh, the illusion.
But there were physical changes to the environment in front of me.
And it's very interesting.
It's, it's interesting because I would say that, that, um, LSD and mushrooms are sort of like the, the augmented reality of the drug world.
And that they just put patterns on top of the reality that you're in right now.
But you never, you, you don't really, um, forget which reality you're in, right?
With, um, something like salvia divinorum or DMT, uh, both of which I've tried.
You, you, uh, you're, you're, it's different.
Okay, so, like, with LSD and mushrooms, they're, these, these drugs can be, in, in high doses, they can be so powerful.
They, they change your sense of who you are.
But with, um, with DMT, you remain as yourself and the, and instead the world changes.
Your holodeck changes, your rendering of what is real changes.
And so people have described their DMT experiences as, like, visiting other planets, living other lifetimes in other galaxies,
meeting aliens from other, uh, parts of the universe, um, traveling the cosmos.
Some people have these really awesome sounding experiences where they, uh, were trying ayahuasca
and they pull out a phone that they actually never brought with them on the trip.
And they pull out this, this phone and they can now flip through all of their past memories
as if all of their past memories were, um, were somehow captured by this non-existent phone.
And they can sort of flip through their mind like their, like their brain was storing picture files.
Um, with, uh, with mushrooms and LSD, a person can, uh, sometimes see computer graphics that are, are not there.
This is a, this is a common experience for me where I, I will see windows
and I'll be able to basically, um, render computer graphics, uh, by choice.
I can, at least that's the, that's the way it feels.
It feels like I am rendering computer graphics by choosing what I want to think about.
And my mind becomes a, uh, uh, visually, it, it, it, it takes on the forms of, uh, some sort
of operating system that I can, I can navigate and I can select what I want to, uh, be focused
on.
Um, and, um, so as a, as someone who's, I, I feel like, you know, the term is for people
who, who have explored their minds and in a sense explored the universe with, with psychedelic
medicine, I, I can say that, you know, the correct term for that is a, is a psychonaut.
Um, but you are, but a psychonaut uses drugs to sort of like explore the universe and explore
their own minds and, and just explore reality and try, and to try to understand, um, what
reality is.
And I, I think that my, in my journey of a psychonaut, we finally, that I finally found,
uh, uh, a point where, um, I can describe what I think, uh, reality is to me in a, in a
new way that I wasn't able to describe before.
And that's, that is part of this book, but I, I'm very, um, I've always been dramatically
inspired by those words at the beginning of every episode of Star Trek.
Um, and the, and the words go, um, to, uh, to boldly go where no one has gone before, right?
And that is the mission of people who explore, um, who explore, uh, outer space or drives,
but it's also the mission of psychonauts who explore the frontiers of their, of consciousness,
uh, through the in spread, through the introspection afforded by psychedelic medication.
In some cases, uh, the, the feeling, at least the feeling, uh, explore, exploring the galaxy
with ayahuasca and DMT and, uh, meeting, meeting aliens and, and, and traversing the cosmos.
These are, um, some of the things that inspire me the most.
And so when I think of, basically the, the, the analogy is that, um, the human brain basically
is the kind of holodeck that re, that reacts.
It models, uh, reality, some version of reality.
And we know that, that the, that this, that this is a, that what we're seeing is a sort of,
like, graphical interpretation of reality and not, um, like, some objective real reality
because there are, there are things, there are facts that are, uh, missing from this reality
such as the fact that the, the, the eye is covered in blood vessels
and there is a action, there's actually, um, a blind spot in the center of every eyeball.
A really large blind spot.
And we, the blind spot is, is something that many people don't know even exists.
And if you do know it exists, it's, you don't see it on a regular basis.
You have to do, like, this, it, it, it takes some special preparation to see it.
There's a, there's a trick to seeing your own blind spot with a, by holding up a pencil
eraser, uh, about a hand's distance in front of your eye and then try, and then trying
to, trying to see it.
I'm trying to see if I can do it right now.
But, um, it's probably.
Um, but, um, but the really big difference between, that every pixel would be produced
by a neuron.
Every pixel would be, uh, would have a receptive field which would be, uh, which would consist
of its connections with other pixels.
So, its connections, it's like, imagine now we're talking about this, you know, uh, a point
cloud, right?
Like, every pixel in a hologram is, like, uh, light.
In a light field, every, um, light field is made up of, of, uh, of, of rays of light.
And, um, at, at every point, you're, you're, there, there, so the reason you can see, sort
of see a light field from every angle is that, um, the combination of the refractive light
on every simulated surface, um, is projecting basically like a point field in 3D space.
And so, um, if you look at basically, so point fields are different from meshes because a mesh,
a 3D mesh or a 3D model, basically starts with, with points, but then there are triangles drawn
between the points and surfaces added to the triangles.
And, um, and this is sort of done, this is sort of done because, uh, I believe it's sort
of done because, you know, if you just look at a point field close up, if you see a point
field from far away, um, it may look like an image, but if you're close up, you just have,
uh, sort of points in space.
The image sort of, um, the image can appear from far away, but it's like looking at, like,
basically one of those dot paintings.
When you're up close, it's a bunch of dots.
And when you're far away, an image, seeing an image is, is possible.
Um, there's, uh, so one way to basically add some, some density, some of, some missing density
into a point cloud is basically to connect it into polygons, connect it into triangles by,
uh, drawing lines between the points and then putting, uh, and then turning those lines
into, uh, surface.
And this is, uh, one way to add dimension, dimensionality to a point cloud.
Another way, uh, could be to just make the points larger to basically turn them into spheres.
Um, but then we have, okay, so let's say that you are, uh, you're creating a live field,
but we want the, to, um, we want the computer to be able to see that, that all of, that,
in the life of, we want the computer to be able to see, uh, you know, what objects are.
And, and an object, it means that all of the points in, in your mental holodeck, uh, that
are associated with a certain object are identified as points belonging to one object and some other
points, those need to be identified as points belonging to some other objects.
And then we need to do some object classification where we can say, well, these points that represent
this object, this is a, a fire hydrant.
And these points that correspond to this object, this is a wall.
And these points that correspond to this object, this is a sidewalk.
And those, the, the, the points, uh, way over to, uh, my left, where my head is now pointing
to the left, that, that, that, those are, those points belong to an object that is a tree.
And what I'm doing right now, in terms of identifying what different points are, this is semantic
segmentation.
And, uh, when I tried, uh, one of the times when I tried Salve of the Norm, which was a
legal, legal, uh, psychedelic medication that you could purchase from, uh, tobacco shops
and online, uh, there was one occasion in which I lost the ability to, um,
to notice, uh, the difference between any object in the room.
Basically, every object in the room, including the room itself, merged together into a single
swirly mass that I was also a part of.
My, our brains, so what I, what I'm, what I'm arguing is that our sense of space is, the
sense of space, the sense of a world is not a fundamental, um, fact of perception.
It's something that our brains learn.
The, our brains learn to divide space into, uh, different objects that have different properties.
We learn to separate the sidewalk from the window.
And if you look at basically, you know, the stories of people who have had their eyesight
restored, uh, artificially after a long time, um, you can see that they're, uh, they go
through a journey in which they are interpreting, in which their interpretation of images evolves
from, uh, really weird interpretations, but, but, back, uh, towards, uh, the kind of classical
interpretations of visual imagery we have in, in, for instance, one person's, uh, one person
who was blind for a long time had their sight restored with modern technology and they went
through, uh, a sort of relearning phase.
This is, this is in the book, uh, uh, action, uh, uh, uh, the action and, uh, to, action
in perception.
And so they went through this, uh, you know, they, they were looking out, out of, out of,
uh, the window for a long time across the street and they thought they were seeing like black
holes, uh, across the street, but eventually it turned out that the black holes that they
thought looked like black holes were actually windows in another building.
But it took a long time for their minds to sort of, uh, go from, uh, I guess just a really
basic crude interpretation of colors in a, in a region of space like black holes, uh, to
recontextualizing that visual image, uh, to have a higher resolution pattern that demonstrated,
uh, a, uh, uh, a neural tomographic, uh, concept of a window with, uh, in a, in a building.
So it went from looking like a weird black hole thing to being, to having a sharper contrast,
sharper image contrast, which was a window in a, uh, uh, in another building.
And this is a really good sort of like improvement, uh, in, in their, uh, visual learning process.
But it also highlights that, um, what might be true for when human beings are first born,
that there is no, uh, no real distinction of, of, um, space and time, uh, no real distinction
of space and time.
But over time, that newborn human being is learning to, um, to make distinctions from the stimulation
that is occurring to that human being's eyes and ears, that newborn human being's eyes and ears
and other senses.
So I, I would say that, I would think that newborns are functionally blind, uh, when they are,
when they first, um, emerged from the womb and that the ability for a newborn to sort of like
see your eyes and your face and react to your smile, that these are, um, uh, that this is not,
this, these are like, um, sort of like the preconditioning of reflexes, that these are, these are, like,
there's a lot of muscle patterns that, um, are firing randomly and they're, they're causing
the baby to sort of make, uh, make like some random facial expressions.
And you, you, I remember, um, the last time I was at, uh, a live birth that almost immediately
it seemed like the people who were observing this newborn were projecting all of this personality
and all this, all these characteristics, um, personality characteristics into the expressions
that the, the, the baby could not possibly have any concept of what these expressions might
mean, uh, to the adults around them.
Not, it's just not possible, but these people were, but, but I, people project emotions onto
the faces of babies and they, they project, um, interpretations, uh, for like, like as if
the baby is making volitional, um, muscle movements instead of random muscle movements.
And, um, so there, so there is a sort of, like, there's a learning process, uh, through which,
um, the eye movements are going to respond to sources of stimulation at a, at a low level,
but that doesn't mean that there's any sort of functional, uh, there's any sort of functional
vision happening, uh, for a newborn.
So the, so the eyes may be able to track objects, um, you know, they can track faces,
the, the facial expressions, uh, might begin to, uh, uh, will begin to, over time, begin
to copy other facial expressions, hand movements will copy hand movements, and the baby will learn
to predict, uh, the patterns in the world until there's some perception, uh, emerging, uh, of
how, uh, of some perception of space and time and the patterns within space and time that,
uh, emerges and develops for the baby through, um, the action and perception cycle.
And, um, so basically, like, constructing reality from the ground up, um, that's what the, the
brain is doing, and that's what I think the brain is doing, is basically starting off with
no conception of space and time and then constructing a conception of, of space and time from the ground
up, from, from the, the, the, the correlations and decorrelations of incoming sensory data that
learned patterns that are, um, uh, acquired through the action and perception cycle, uh, and they,
these learned patterns acquired through the action and perception cycle, um, eventually take on,
uh, the, the, uh, basically a simulation of the universe from the baby, from the human
being's perspective.
Like, in essence, each one of us is sort of simulating the universe from our own perspective
and each one of us, in a sense, created our own perception of this universe.
We, in a sense, created our own reality.
And, um, but that doesn't, but that is, um, that, uh, is in a sense, uh, uh, formed from
the, the building blocks of, of inner perception, inner sensation, and, um,
uh, uh, external perception, and, uh, in, so, and then the combination of, and then the link
between the body of causation, which is your body and your mouth, your, your voice, the body
of causation, and your fingers, um, and the, the, um, the sensory data that is giving you,
uh, feedback, uh, of, for what the body of causation is doing, what you're doing, to help you put
together, uh, um, a map of your ecosystem that you, as the organism, can navigate.
So, our mind is like a holodeck, and, in a sense, we are, the mind is, in a sense, creating,
uh, uh, its own, uh, rendering of space-time.
But, what's interesting is that, um, I don't know, I like to speculate on the, the possible
idea that everyone is, see, we're not, it's like, the idea is that the atom, and that every
oscillator in the universe, every body of oscillators, which is a human being is on some level, a body
of oscillators, uh, body of dissipative systems, every cell is a dissipative oscillator, uh, dissipative
system, that's oscillating, every, um, every, uh, um, every person is a dissipative system
that's oscillating, we are each, um, uh, like, my argument is that every, like, every oscillator,
like a planet, is creating space, it's creating, uh, the, the warping of space-time around itself,
that space-time is relative to, um, to, oscillators at all scales, from planets to atoms to galaxies,
that the quantity of space-time emerges from, or, or expands from, uh, the, um, uh, from,
from the atom.
Um, and so my argument is not only we, do we have a simulation of the universe that we are creating
from the beginning, but in a sense also, um, as oscillators, we are creating space-time,
um, and it's as if every oscillator that ever existed across space-time is also contributing
to creating space-time, every bird, every human being, every fish is in effect creating a node
of space-time, and what happens when we interact, uh, with, with other oscillators, um, we're
visiting, like, we, we, we, it's like, it's like we're all this sort of, like, it's like each person
is sort of, like, a strange attractor in, in chaos theory, or in the, you know, Lorenz equation,
a strange attractor, that is creating a node of space-time that can interact with other nodes
of space-time, um, and you, you are space-time interacting with space-time, but, but, um,
when you, whenever you interact with anyone else, and, um, you know, thinking about how
all this works, it sort of takes away identity, um, it takes away identity in the sense that
I now sort of see myself in everyone, and in every life form, like, I see what I thought
was me everywhere, I mean, it is kind of me, but it's also not me, because it's everyone,
I see myself in everyone, and I can't think of anything about myself that's unique other
than the position of my, of the relative position of my, of my head, other than that, I don't,
I, like, I can't, like, I have, the position of my head comes with a sort of, um, uh, I would
say, uh, like, uh, if there's uniqueness to everybody, it's that everyone is a unique
configuration of information, but that configuration of information is, is, it's like
Legos, it's, like, made of common parts, it's, like, we all have common parts, we all are made
out of Legos, and it's all, like, the same Legos, the same DNA letters, the same protein
molecules, the same, uh, uh, nucleotide RNA sequences, the, the, the, we use the, um, but
this, this, um, this uniqueness is sort of, like, um, the uniqueness of, of a neuron's position
in, um, in the brain, the neurons position in the brain and nodes that, and the nodes that
it's connected to, which are turning on and off, so sometimes, uh, you know, a neuron is,
um, is connected to some neurons, and sometimes it's connected to other neurons, and what this
neuron is connected to is, um, to a great extent about, um, uh, sort of, like, it defines its,
what makes that neuron different from any other neuron is its connections, its, its, uh, synaptic
connections, and that determines that neuron's perspective, in a sense, which determines, which,
which is going to be, like, okay, well, when we, when that neuron fires, it means that its
perspective has been activated, that that pad, that synaptic pattern in the brain has been
activated, and that synaptic pattern then makes its own pattern to let the rest of the brain
know that it has been activated, and so when that, when it, when that neuron makes its own
pattern, its firing pattern, that allows its, uh, perception, its pattern perception to link
with other pattern perceptions, and so patterns link together, and now they fire together, and
so basically, you have a firing sequence that represents one pattern, and then represents
another pattern, and then represents another pattern, and that's like a, that's like a
movie, right, where a pattern, um, can represent, uh, you know, a pixel on a screen in a movie,
or it could represent a line, or it could represent a whole frame, you know, a pattern can represent
a whole image frame in a movie, you know, movies, you know, that sometimes they, you've heard,
you know, they, uh, things like, uh, 20 frames per second, 30 frames per second, 60 frames
per second, movies have different, different possible frames per second, so, you know, some,
uh, you know, some, some computer monitors in, in 2020, we're hearing about, uh, the, your computer
monitor, uh, is now doing 120 frames per second, or 300 frames per second, there was this, uh,
Nvidia monitor, so it really, just, basically flashed at 1700 frames per second, and, and
they really just wanted to, it was really low detail, because imagine how much, how much
computing power, uh, the more frames you have per second, uh, the, um, uh, more computing
power, it's, it's, it's going, it's going to demand, uh, and, and, but that also, so they had
to make it, like, a really low resolution, 1700 frames per second, so if you have, if you increase
the resolution, more, it costs more computing, computing power, and if you increase the frame
rate, then it costs more computing power to render each of the, the frames, and so we need
ever larger amounts of computing power for faster, uh, frames per second, uh, renderings,
and the rendering really is, like, um, uh, uh, rendering is, uh, the result of, of a sequence
of, uh, of firing that unites a bunch of, um, independent marks into a single image that's
displayed on a, on, uh, uh, some sort of surface, whether that is a, a topological surface, um,
or, um, a, uh, the functional, uh, equivalent of a topological surface, and that's where I'm
like, yeah, so, so people might say, okay, well, um, if your brain is a holodeck, where
is the topological surface, and, uh, so I'm arguing that we have, um, basically the sparse
and distributed, um, representation of, of topological surfaces, uh, that amounts to the functional
equivalent of a holodeck, but a holodeck that's accomplished with, um, with sparse representations.
It's like, um, the neurons need only, um, to sort of, like, reflect a tiny piece of, of
a pattern, just to, to, to, uh, combine many tiny pieces of patterns, uh, for each, uh, interval
of time in each area of, uh, of your, uh, perceptive field, to, um, to produce, uh, the functional
equivalent of a holodeck in your mind.
Um, and this, this then also, um, uh, can explain how dreams can be so visual and so vivid, uh,
even though you may not be getting any sensory input.
Uh, in fact, if you go into a sensory deprivation tank, uh, where you aren't getting any light,
uh, and, uh, and ideally, you're not hearing any sound, uh, if it, if it's, you know, it basically
sound, the, the hope is that it's soundproof, although not every sensory deprivation tank
that I've tried was 100% soundproof, but, um, but they really can, uh, get pretty close.
And, um, so, when people, uh, get into a sensory deprivation tank, the, um, the result is that
they can, uh, have the experience of seeing, uh, hallucinatory images without medication.
And, um, it's, it's not, it's also, it's also possible, I mean, I have tried, um,
um, uh, basic, I've, I've also had tactile hallucinations from drinking, uh, 16 hours after
drinking, uh, a couple of shots of, of, um, absinthe, green absinthe, it tasted like, um,
black licorice.
And about 16 hours after, um, I had tactile sensations as if there were hands all over
my body.
And it was so amazing.
Uh, but, um, so you could have, so you could have visual hallucinations.
Some people have audio hallucinations.
They hear, they hear, uh, sounds that other people can't hear.
They hear voices that other people can't hear.
This is real.
Some people see hallucinations without medication.
Um, Oliver Sacks was one of those people.
He, he would see, like, uh, really cartoony, funny, weird, uh, faces and stuff.
And that nobody else could see.
But, but this is, um, uh, pretty well within the range of, of, of what, uh, your brain is
capable of, uh, provided that, um, things aren't, aren't going, uh, aren't going well in terms
of your, in terms of your brain's health, in terms of your brain function, uh, according
to, uh, I guess, neurotypical standards.
Um, but it can be very, like, it's not just neurotypical standards.
It can be very, they can be very, like, objective measures for what is, um, uh, and maybe,
maybe, maybe the subjective measures for, for what is basically, um, inconvenient brain
function or disabling brain, brain function.
If you are, um, unable to, uh, to function as well as, uh, you know, someone who's so, so-called
neurotypical in the same settings as neurotypicals, that, that, uh, difference, the neurodivergent
behavior can be considered a kind of, uh, disability for, for, for you in a very real
way.
It's, it's, um, you know, I don't know if it's useful to use terms like subjective or objective
here in terms of describing what your experience is.
But certainly they can measure, they, there are differences in your, in your function compared
to other people's function that could be, uh, objectively measured, uh, on tests, on, you
know, your comfort levels around other people, your ability to pay attention, your ability
to remember.
There's lots of tests that can be used to, um, to sort of, uh, try to analyze, uh, to
create, um, data that we, that can be analyzed to sort of poke at and explore the differences
between people who are neurodivergent in different ways, whether that's autism, ADHD, uh, or hundreds
of other possible, um, uh, uh, mental divergent, uh, situations and mental disability situations.
Um, where, uh, you know, someone might be, uh, uh, uh, hallucinating audio or, or visual
or, or tactile, uh, experiences.
They may even be, um, you know, the idea that there is, uh, one artist, uh, a friend
of mine in, uh, who lives in Alameda, not far from San Francisco, uh, in the Bay Area.
And, uh, she describes the way I, the way I would, uh, have described, um, uh, LSD to,
to another person is the way she describes her normal perception of reality.
As if her brain has basically sort of, sort of, like, put her in a situation where she
kind of has, she's kind of in an LSD trip all the time.
She's always kind of, like, in a, like, sort of, like, visual meltdown.
And, and, and she has, uh, she has basically issues related to, um, um, I don't want to
go into too much detail, but she basically, um, you know, she has, she has a therapist
to, uh, for, to help her through her difficult moments, um, because her mind is, in a sense,
uh, uh, rendering an alternate experience of reality that's not neurotypical.
It's neurodivergent, and it's, it's, um, it's, it's, it's, it's what, it's like, it's,
it's like, imagine if you ever get to try, um, LSD, like, imagine, just, like, when you
try it and you're blown away by the patterns that you see and you just have this, like,
sort of mind-expanding experience and you start to question your mind and who you are
and, and, and everything, you start to think about your own cognition in really interesting
ways, just, like, um, just realize that some people, uh, are stuck there.
Some people are, they don't leave that, that place, uh, that perspective.
That is their reality.
And, and we could also start to think about, you know, there was this great, so I, so I,
uh, have, uh, always been on the autistic spectrum and there was this great,
uh, uh, video that, from my perspective, just sort of shot out of nowhere on, uh, HBO.
It was called, uh, Temple Grandin, HBO special.
And Temple Grandin was this sort of, like, autistic savant, or she was really just an autistic
person who, um, I, I don't want to say, like, I mean, I think maybe all, maybe all autistic
people are, are savants in a way, but, uh, but she was, uh, able.
She was able to, um, see, uh, patterns that were beyond the scale of what the, the neurotypical
architects around her could see.
She was able to interpret that, she was able to see that the cows preferred to move in,
uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, sort of circular motion and, or spiral-like, uh, motion.
And so if you, if you designed the cow pens, uh, to be, uh, round, so the cows could sort
of, like, move in a circle, and you divine, sort of, like, even designed the slaughterhouses
and, and everything so that cows could sort of, like, move in, uh, clockwise circles, that
meant so much to the cows.
It meant, uh, it was so comforting for cows to be able to walk around in a spiral versus,
um, straight lines.
And this is something that people who, um, this is, like, a high-level pattern.
And the neurotypicals are not, they're not paying enough attention to, to the, the, the
movements of cows to have noticed this.
An autistic architect was the one who was able to notice this.
And so, um, she designed more successful, um, uh, enclosures for cattle that caused less
panic, the, like, the, even the slaughterhouses, where, you know, instead of losing, instead
of, you know, the cows becoming frightened and stampeding over each other, over each other
and, and, and stepping on the one unfortunate cow that, that slipped, she was able to keep
the cows calm by moving them in a sort of circular pathway that was, uh, soothing to,
um, the, uh, uh, uh, the, the cow's biorhythms.
It calmed them down when they were able to move in a circular path.
And, um, and then Temple Grandin went on to, to suggest that autism sort of makes her, her,
her perspective a little bit closer to, uh, the perspective of an animal's perspective.
And so, you kind of, like, you start to wonder, okay, well, um, what, how many other human
beings, like, like, what about the, in the evolution of human beings, over time, and the development
of perspectives, how many people, you know, sort of, um, in ancient times would have really,
uh, been on the autistic spectrum and recognized the importance of moving in circular, circular,
uh, directions, and, and for, for greater calm, for the greater calm of, of, of the collective.
Uh, it, it's, it's weird.
Why, why does circular, uh, why does moving in a circular way beneficial to an animal?
Why?
And, and another thing that Temple Grandin did was she would, she designed this machine that
would squeeze her, it would apply physical pressure to different sides of her body simultaneously.
It was, it was, it was a squeeze machine.
She could squeeze herself in it.
And she found this, like, immense, liberating calm.
And today there are people who, who, who do something similar where they, they trust their,
their partners to, to tie them up with rope.
Um, and, uh, it's, it's, it's, uh, Japanese bondage, uh, rope bond, Japanese rope bondage.
And they get, they, they, the, the partners, usually it would be your, your, um, your, your
life partner, your sexual partner, your life partner, or your, um, your, your boyfriend or
girlfriend, who you trust immensely.
Like, there's an immense amount of trust because you're, because one person takes turns, takes
a turn at tying up the other person.
And he's really like, um, um, sort of like lovely knots.
There's a specific way to do it.
And, and it looks really, uh, beautiful.
And, um, and often there's a little bit of, a little bit of, of nudity involved.
Um, so, so, so, so it's very interesting to, to, uh, to groups of people to go to these sort
of, uh, Japanese bondage events where, uh, uh, some of the people will be tied up by their
partners and, and now, so now there's this like this, this sort of like tactile, this immense
tactile experience that applies pressure, um, all over.
And it's probably very calming.
It's probably very soothing.
If you are in this great place of trust, it's probably like very mentally relaxing.
Um, just like, but, but, but I think it's a similar concept perhaps to the, um, to the
squeeze machine, uh, that Temple Grandin designed for herself to squeeze herself from all sides
to basically give herself a mechanical hug.
And, uh, so now what this is going to do for the brain is it's going to, um, cause a lot of,
um, uh, it, it, it, it may cause a lot of excited activity, uh, excitement activity in the, uh,
somatosensory cortex.
The, the, the mechanoreceptors and, and, and the skin all over the skin are being activated.
They're being, there's pressure being recognized and that's going to, um,
um, uh, provide a strong, uh, low amplitude pattern perhaps, or maybe a higher amplitude
pattern that will oscillate though.
It'll oscillate for a long time.
It's like, um, and then that would, that might lower the noise on, on, in terms of the brain's,
uh, visual patterns and the brain's audio patterns and all the worrying thoughts and that a person
might be having, like, just because you are creating a whole bunch of tactile sensation.
So, um, yeah, I don't know exactly, but these are interesting thoughts.
And, um, so in addition to, like, your, you know, with the holodeck you're having, like,
we're talking about visual, like, pixels in your mind, like visuals, but it's like these pixels are
also, uh, they're wave patterns or phase patterns that are, they're not just, they might, they might be
spherical, they might, you might think of them as like the spherical pixels, but they're, but they're
sort of like moving, they're, these patterns are moving relative to your head position.
Uh, so your brain is tracking where you are with, with, uh, with grid cells and it's tracking your
head position and orientation with place cells, which update a lot faster because your head position
and orientation, uh, change a lot faster than the place that you're in.
Even if that place is just like a location on a, on a, on a street or a location in a forest,
you, you're, and even if you're like in a car, you're in a sense, you're, you know,
or in some other fast moving vehicle and maybe an airplane, um, usually you're, I mean,
that would be the different, that would be the, the, the alternative situation when you're,
uh, if you're moving through space really fast, um, you're, uh, in Torino, suddenly you're forcing your,
your grid cells to update faster than your, um, place cells, which might, which might be a little
if the government had the ability to manufacture brains in a, in a factory that it could create
its own like private singularity. And that would, that would be like more powerful than a nuclear,
than having a nuclear weapon potentially with sentient, uh, artificial intelligence, self-aware
artificial consciousness, artificial souls, machines could, um, outthink human beings.
And, uh, this, if, if this was a, if this power, uh, if, if the power to make machines like this
was in the hands of one government over the other, then that government would, would quickly overtake,
potentially overtake all other governments and all other organizations.
That would be like a singularity moment in, in which, um, you know, power in the hands of,
of, uh, of one government would just exceed all others. And in fact, it could be that government
could become totalitarian without, uh, any rivals, um, in that situation. Um, that government
could even disintegrate and just a few powerful individuals who have the secret, uh, could,
um, could, um, could dominate the world. And, um, so there is, I think there is some sort of wisdom
in the fact that, uh, uh, uh, there is this, uh, that nuclear power was sort of like distributed from
its inception that, um, multiple countries, uh, were, were able to, have been able to, uh, reproduce,
um, this technology. And then, um, and then there is this sort of like, uh, what'd you call it?
The concept is called mutually assured destruction, where, um, if one country wants to nuke another
country, it now has to be afraid of the fact that it may, it might get nuked, uh, by another country.
So no one wants to use nukes because that would destroy everything. And on top of that, even if
you destroy just a fraction of the planet, your personal wealth, your personal wealth is going
to be diminished because your personal wealth is in, in one sense, um, you're purchasing power.
And if you take away a huge fraction of the planet, like if, like if, like if an entire continent
was destroyed, and you pick any continent you want, some are larger than others, but if a huge amount
of life was wiped out, well, that would mean that the amount of, the amount of products that exist in
the world, um, would just vanish. Your purchasing power would decrease because the amount of remaining
products that are made, that are made with, uh, human labor, um, they, they would, uh, all cost more.
Everything would cost more. And we have these, uh, low costs because of the efficiencies of scale,
uh, uh, uh, scale, uh, scale, scaled up manufacturing, uh, scaling, uh, technologies, and also, um,
um, uh, large-scale, uh, programs that, uh, uh, that, uh, uh, employ human labor.
So the economy is, um, your, the, the amount that your dollar is worth is relative to the purchasing
power of that dollar. So yes, there are, there are to, to a great extent. It's also relative to how
many dollars there are versus how many products there are. Um, yeah. The total amount of, um,
amount of wealth if you, um, were able to stash away some wealth.
