=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0080y Supermind Network Oscillations
First recorded: 2021-11-03T04:54:29.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/60661824-997a-4c3a-b425-af6b42bebe75
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So now that we have a new path to try to create sentient artificial intelligence, self-aware networks, conscious machines, artificial souls.
So now that we have a new path to this, sentient artificial intelligence, self-aware networks, conscious machines, artificial souls.
Now that we have this path in front of us, now that we have this path for how we can read and write to the human brain, now it's time to build self-aware networks that can interact with us with WebXR, with AR and BR experiences on the web.
Because the web is how the Metaverse is connected.
The web is cyberspace. It's the real Metaverse. It's the real Matrix. It's the network between human beings.
And while that network is continually being upgraded with improved components over time,
faster, faster, faster, and more powerful chips, and new architectures, new network architectures,
you know, it is possible that one day that we could build a self-aware network
that interlinks or connects to the internet or the web in such a way that there can be an integration,
a collective integration between our minds in this self-aware network.
Like, imagine a super-consciousness that a human being could link into in order to connect to the collective consciousness.
But you would still be you.
And you would still be you because your brain would maintain its own independent oscillations.
The oscillations that create the representations of your perspective, your point of view.
Through your senses.
So, one of the things we could do to make sure that you stay grounded in you is to give you a player character.
Right? An avatar for your mind to use inside the collective matrix.
A voluntary simulation that we can all join in like Ready Player One.
Right?
We can connect to the network.
And the AI, we can be inside the AI's mind basically.
Like, its mind can be the world that we interact in.
And so we can move about inside this super mind.
And we're rendering a version of reality that's basically our perspective within the super mind.
But we're also sort of creating our own space as oscillators.
And we're creating our own version of reality from the beginning through the process of our minds rendering, creating a computer program to represent reality to ourselves.
That's right.
That's right.
I'm arguing that our brains are making a computer program.
But it's a computer program that is about the neural tomography and neural functional tomography of sensory input data and muscle data.
The analysis of both.
Like the level.
Yes.
