=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0092y Phi is pattern resolution capacity
First recorded: 2021-10-27T17:03:36.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/7e976dcd-1c8e-4124-8dc9-8f54c364fd86
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
One of the problems with category theory that people quickly point out, even people who've never read it, is that it does seem kind of vague.
Integrated information is so vague that, I mean, if you think about your reality, right, it's like, okay, so if you've ever seen the Matrix film, and you see that scene where Neo sees everything as basically,
uh, numbers, like, he sees the walls as numbers, uh, he sees the hallway as numbers, he even sees the agents as, as numbers.
Um, and these are specifically, like, um, numbers that are, are flowing in such a way, uh, that they, um, uh, they're numbers, but they retain the outline of the, of, of the body of the agents,
and the, the, the outline of the, of the wall, so you can still, um, in, in the rendering they show in the movie, you can still see that it's, it's really both the, the physical structures with numbers running on top of them at the same time.
Sort of, um, sort of, um, sort of, uh, I had a, I had an experience with, um, with LSD once, where I experienced San Francisco basically like the Matrix, like, like it was made out of numbers, and, and that I could see into, I could see through it transparently and, and see the entirety.
Um, um, well, from a, from a perspective, I was, I was down by the, uh, by the coast.
The problem with, um, category theory, though, is like, okay, so at some point, um, people thought that attention and conscious, and, and, and awareness were the same thing.
Um, and then through experimentation and, and observation and careful analysis, they realized that, um, that you're, including with, and this combines, um, you know, imaging that, uh, medical imaging.
Um, it, it turns out that, um, they, they, that your brain is able to track, uh, and be aware of things that you're not conscious of.
So, um, your, your, your attention, what you're paying attention to, um, is different from what your eye is detecting.
Um, the, the famous video, there's a famous video that, uh, that continues to trick me when I, when I see it, which is where you're watching some people play basketball,
and if you, if you get involved in watching how they're passing the ball being passed around in the game,
then you miss the gorilla, um, walking across the court.
Like, I, but still, it still gets me every time.
I'm like, wait, where's, there's a gorilla that just walked through here?
And it's, it's, it's, um, but, but with medical imaging, it, it, it can be seen that, yeah, your brain is still tracking the gorilla.
You're just not paying attention to it.
And it seems, so that, that, that, the idea that, um, people once confused, um, you know, attention and consciousness
as being the same thing, um, sort of, um, and, and by consciousness, I mean, like, the awareness of being, uh,
uh, the awareness of, of, of, um, I mean, not the awareness of being, but the, I mean, so now I'm using the word
to distinguish it from the other word, right?
Uh, the awareness is, um, not necessarily correlated one-to-one with, with attention.
They can, they can, um, you can have, you can have attention happening without awareness.
And there could be awareness without it, without attention.
You know, that's the idea.
Um, but then we forget to, if we get to integrated information theory, there could be other ways
to divide up, um, what, what consciousness is.
And one of those things is to say, well, what if, um, what, what if the, uh, because integrated
information theory is like, yeah, so if there's more, if there's more information and there's,
and it's, it's integrated in a certain way and it's, it's, there's enough complexity and
there's enough operations, then, then intelligence will just naturally emerge.
Some, something like that, right?
And, and I don't know if I, I might be, I might be misstating integrated information
theory, but it's something like that.
And, um, you know, they think that, uh, you know, if we just, if we just put enough information
together, like if we just synergize it, if we just synchronize it.
And, and, and, and I think, you know, following that, there's, there's, um, you know, someone
came out with this, like, they call it the resonant, um, resonating, um, but it's kind
of like, um, you know, so it's a map of reality.
So Buddhism, for example, um, you know, from the tradition of, of, of Buddhism or, or actually
maybe, maybe I should say spinoff traditions, cause what is the original tradition of Buddhism?
We just have all these spinoffs of, of Buddhism nowadays, some of them, um, official and some
of them unofficial.
And most of what I've been exposed to probably unofficial versions of Buddhism.
Um, but I've heard, um, you know, and that, so like, I'm really thinking about spiral dynamics
and I know some people are, they don't, they don't want to hear anyone talk about Ken
Wilbur, cause he's a controversial figure in spiral dynamics, right?
He's got his own branch of spiral dynamics and the people in, who are not in Ken Wilbur's
branch, um, don't like it.
Um, and, uh, so there's some sectarian, um, differences between the, the, the Ken Wilbur,
uh, sectarian branch of spiral dynamics and the, and the other, uh, rival church of spiral dynamics.
And, uh, they hate each other.
Um, but it's a, it's a little bit of humor, but there's, there's something to what I'm
saying.
I, I'm, you know, it's humor because these are the people who write about, um, the maps
of reality, the map of reality, right?
The, the, the lines and the, the, of development, uh, that, of cognitive development as, as a
human being, um, grows and matures through time, how their mind might develop.
But it's also, uh, about the development of the human psyche over, over the course of
history and the development.
And, and, and I guess, um, the, you know, uh, the main, the main thing that I, that there's
lots of things to take away from Ken Wilbur, but, um, it's that, um, okay, let me just see
if I can wrap this up.
Um, it's, it's that, um, observation and the complexity, self-awareness and the complexity
of your brain, like, um, might be, uh, once again, completely different, completely different,
um, things.
And I think that, not completely different, but I mean, like, it's the way awareness, awareness
and, so Phi is this measurement of, is, is an attempt to measure consciousness by measuring
the, um, not just the structure of your brain, but, but, but, um, the activity of your brain.
Like, for example, if you're using what, uh, Christoph Koch used, which was to use a, uh,
TMS pulse and to use medical imaging to track the TMS pulse as it ricocheted, as, as the
pulses, reverberations ricocheted around the brain.
And, um, so that, the idea is just to sort of, like, um, just to look at the aggregate
complexity of brain activity, of active brain activity within the complex network of the
brain that has a certain sort of, like, structure.
Like, uh, Kochuk in his book that he, that he's, you know, there's, there's 80 billion neurons
in, in the cerebellum, but they, but, uh, obviously cerebellums have been disconnected from human
beings and the human beings continue to be conscious.
And so, um, what is it?
80% of 86 billion, uh, neurons in the cerebellum.
And scientists don't think it's conscious because you can cut it off and people are still conscious.
And so, and so what they look at is they say, well, the configuration is too straight.
The neurons are just lined up too straight.
They're lined up in a row.
They're not, there's not enough, um, lateral connection to support, um, a conscious state.
You know, but I don't know, I don't, I don't know of an experiment where the, where the, I
mean, I mean, and it looks like just an excitatory, uh, network, you know, like a heart instead
of, instead of something that has, uh, that's capable of a lot of patterns, a lot of inhibitory
patterns.
So it's, um, so it's, it's, it's purpose is a bit of a mystery if it's not for, if it's
not for, uh, for consciousness.
You know, it's, it's not a total mystery.
It's supposedly, it, it helps a great deal with balance, you know, with helping you to
find your balance.
Um, people who don't have one, they, they seem to move a little bit more like a drunk
person.
Their, their, their movements are not as smooth.
Um, and so maybe it has, maybe it's the oscillatory value of the, um, sort of cerebellum, cerebellum
is like a magnetic, uh, weight, uh, weight that helps you balance.
Right.
Maybe it's like an, um, I don't know.
I don't know.
But if it's not, it's like, okay.
It's like, well, you know, what's interesting is when you come, when you have lots of neurons
that are, have coordinated synchrony, um, that's really good for moving muscle.
Like your heart, for example, it has a lot of neurons that are just, they just always fire
and synchrony.
They don't, it's not like the, it's not, it's not the way the neurons behave in the brain
where the neurons, uh, sort of, um, have novel pattern, novel, uh, firing patterns
in, in, in, in your brain.
Um, there, there's lots of, like, you, you see different patterns, uh, almost chaotic
patterns about it in the brain all the time.
But at the heart, the neurons are like, we're always the same.
We never change.
Regular, the regular, the regular, the regular.
And then the next day is we're always the same.
We never change.
You know, it's, it's, there is this, there, there aren't inhibitory interneuron networks.
In, in the heart.
It's not, it's not, um, it's, it's not that there are, there, sensory patterns are not
being reflected across the structure of the heart.
But they are being reflected across the structure of the brain.
And they're being represented by the structure of the brain.
Because the brain is changing in response to incoming sensory patterns.
The heart is not changing at all in response to, to, uh, to patterns from the world.
It, it, you know, those patterns aren't being sent to the heart.
But if they were, um, the heart would just ignore them.
It doesn't change in response to, to, to patterns from, from, I guess, I guess it could evolve
to do so over a long time.
But it doesn't do that.
And it's not connected that way.
And, and, um, but getting back to integrated information theory is, is, I think that, um, with
this hypothesis that I, that I'm describing something as small as a bug, and this is not,
you know, um, I guess in, in Christoph Koch's book, you know, he was saying that fish could
be conscious, could be, they could be, because they might, because even though they have far
fewer, far fewer neurons and far smaller brains, they might have, they might have the arrangement
or the structure for basic consciousness.
And, um, and so there, there, so he's like making an argument, but the fish doesn't have
the quantity, uh, of the complexity of the human brain, it doesn't have the same phi, it doesn't
have, sorry, it doesn't have the quantity of interconnected complexity that, that, that
matches sort of the, the kinds of operations, the scale of the operation, it doesn't have
the scale of the operations that the human brain has.
And there, and therefore, consciousness for a fish must be, uh, in, in some way, like, uh,
less than, such as, it might be smaller, or it might be just, um, less complex, or, or
their, their, um, the fish's interpretation of reality must be, um, reduced in some way.
I, I, um, I want to say that I think that, well, okay,
if, uh, it could be, though, that, um, from the fish's perspective, their, their perspective
is very grand, right?
And, because the fish doesn't know what it's missing, right?
So the fish's perspective could be, I'm just saying, like, like, if, uh, imagine this
beautiful ocean picture, right?
And, um, I don't know, I don't know if, okay, here, here, here's the thing.
I think that maybe phi, or the complexity of the, the, the, the patterns that are, I, I
think of pi, like, phi, P-H-I.
I think of it as, like, maybe it could be an indicator of the, of the resolution of the
patterns that the brain is incorporating into memory at each interval, right?
The resolution, though.
I think that phi could be a way to measure the resolution of, of consciousness, or the, the
resolution of our internal patterns that form the walls and fabric of consciousness.
And, um, that's different from, but that's different from saying that it is consciousness.
No, I think that phi represents the resolution of consciousness, like, how much detail exists
in consciousness, potentially.
How detailed the patterns are.
Because you could also, um, you know, potentially do that TMS experiment, uh, that combined with
medical imaging, uh, with, um, with, um, you could combine that with, um, uh, what is it
called, uh, with someone on, on ayahuasca or DMT.
And they may have, they may have, uh, or someone in the sensory deprivation tank.
And, and their brain could be altered in a way that they don't have normal consciousness,
or they're not, like, on this plane of existence from their own perspective.
They're not aware of their real surroundings.
They're in an altered mental state.
And, um, uh, that person might even be dreaming.
And what, what are you measuring?
What are you, what are you, what's, what's, um, I don't know.
I want to see what that looks like.
But if you have, so the, the dreaming state, okay.
Okay, dreaming is different because their brain is going to sleep.
But the person with, um, you know, ayahuasca or DMT, their brain, I would expect the brain
to be, like, overly excited.
And you think that, that, that would be a good measure of consciousness, but, but, but maybe
they're not, maybe they're, uh, they're not with us.
But their brains are really active.
And, uh, so they're not really, they're not really, uh, conscious of the real environment
that they're in, but they're experiencing some, some alteration, some alternate reality.
That's, that's, um, let's call it a hallucination.
And, um, um, but the, but maybe the resolution of their hallucination could be defined with
five, right?
Not the, not, not, not whether they're, um, don't consider it a quantity of consciousness,
but, but instead the rest, so it's going back to, yeah, the fact that, you know, it's clear
now, through many experiments and careful analysis, that awareness and attention are two different
things.
And I think that with, um, integrated information, that we have a situation where, um, the measure
of consciousness is not a measure of consciousness.
It's a measure of the resolution of the patterns inside a self-aware network.
And the self-awareness is about the cyclic configuration of the network.
In other words, the self-awareness is, is the result of, of, of, of, um, patterns learned
over time in which the, the outside world and the inside world, um, are, are learned.
And the connections between your muscle movements and your body and your form are connected to
your incoming senses and what you're doing and what you're experiencing and where you
are and who you're with.
And so your brain is learning a model and it's not the, the model itself is not, um, consciousness.
The complexity of the model is not conscious because you can have a really complex model in
a computer that's not conscious.
It's the learned, it's the feedback loop described by Douglas Hofstadler.
Uh, the feedback loop, um, in his books, Go to Asherbach and then also, uh, the follow-up book,
I'm a Strange Loop.
Um, that, that, uh, the data of your, your brainwaves causing changes to, uh, your muscle
movements, which cause changes to, um, your, uh, the, the sense that you're, you're, the
mood, the positions of your eyes and the positions of your ears and the things you're sensing and
hearing and, um, and, uh, and all your, all your senses combined, when, when they are learned,
when you're learning the sort of neurofeedback of your own body through experience, that's,
that's when sort of like the self-awareness, um, the patterns, the patterns of self-awareness
begin to formulate in the cortex.
It's through the feedback loop of lived experiences, of patterns, um, forming connections, uh, that
map, basically it's your map of reality.
And, um, so yeah, so I'm arguing that Phi is the resolution of, of the patterns of, of,
of consciousness, but that consciousness is the looping.
of, of, of pattern, the feet, the, the narrow feet, the strange loop, like a feedback loop
of patterns or neural feedback.
Consciousness comes from, basically, neural feedback through the resolution of the pattern
matrix that your brain is putting together.
So, um, so cyclic brain activity, when information oscillates through circuits that, that incorporates
new information from the world, like that is where consciousness emerges.
And, um, I think Phi is, is, is a useful measurement for measuring the potential resolution of consciousness.
But I think that, um, any organism with a brain, or a piece of brain, like an organoid, a tiny
piece of brain, that's in a learning feedback loop, is going to gain, uh, some, some sort of self-awareness.
But the resolution of that self-awareness is what's going to vary.
And so, um, you could say, well, a fish is going to have, uh, through, through the interaction, uh, with its environment, it's going to have a very, extremely low resolution, uh, self-awareness, comparatively.
If you compare this to the complexity of its neural network to the complexity of, uh, of, of, of an elephant.
An elephant's resolution of, its pattern resolution should be significantly larger scale, uh, in terms of the, the density of patterns an elephant can hold into memory.
Uh, and, and that's not, that's not just, uh, that's not only about the, sorry, image resolution, but that's also about the, the, um, the temporal resolution.
Like, how, how much time can, uh, over what, over what period of time can, can an elephant, uh, conceptualize reality?
Like, can, can, can memories be linked together so an elephant can remember, um, uh, memories across a lifetime and put them together temporally?
Oh, that's when I was a kid elephant.
You remember being a kid elephant?
Now we have kids.
Like, that, the, the, those sort of, like, um, long-term memories might be more likely to happen in larger brains.
Um, perhaps, uh, perhaps the, the, the, the fish is, by comparison, the fish is, like, um, you know, the only remember, like, reality started last week and, and, and the only thing the fish remembers is what happened this week.
You know, maybe it's like that, or, or the only thing, or it could be the only thing the fish remembers is really, it's like what happened this, uh, today.
And maybe the longest memory that the fish has is, like, is, or can put together is, like, a month ago.
And it doesn't mean the fish is forgetting its very old memories.
It's that, it's, it's the idea that, um, the, the, the pattern resolution of the complexity of its mind might limit, like, how far it can conceptualize time.
And, um, I don't know, there could be, um, it, it could be possible for, uh, a creature with, uh, a smaller brain to have a glimpse of what it's like to, for, to have a larger brain.
Um, to, to, you know, what if, what if, um, it, it's like, yeah, what if you suddenly had, what if you woke up and you suddenly had this conception of reality when, with, uh, about, you know, on the scale of, like, 10,000 years.
Like, what if you're just, like, really were such a history junkie and an anthropologist and you just, just always walked around with, like, this window of, of maybe 10,000 years into the past and 10,000 years into the future.
You know, uh, you know, uh, you know, I guess some archaeologists are really thinking in terms of 500, uh, million years or 13.7 billion years, whatever it is, the age of the universe.
And some people are really in the long now by comparison to, to what's happening with, with, uh, you know, there are people who are in the month, they're, like, in the month, like, they're, like, they're, they're, they don't remember what happened last month.
They're just here in this month. And there are people who are, you know, their heads are in the 13.7 billion years span of, of history.
Sorry, of, of, of the evolution of the cosmos. 13.7 billion years of the natural, of, of physics-based natural selection, natural selection of the cosmos.
Right. Right. How patterns, uh, how, how patterns develop from the, uh, beginning, alleged beginning of time.
Um, but in short, I'm arguing that Phi is a pattern resolution and measurement, and it doesn't have to do with self-awareness or consciousness fundamentally.
It's not the amount of consciousness that you have. It's the resolution of your patterns.
And what consciousness comes about when, when your patterns are, uh, when your pattern learning system is in a, is entered, into a feedback loop.
Or when, when your phase field is, uh, is breathing and learning, uh, it's, it's phase field.
Phase field, it's in, which is, which is the ecosystem the brain is in, or your environment.
And, and I, that's, that's, that's sort of how I picture it. It's like all of our incoming senses, it's, it's, um, it's like our brain does a lot to, uh, you know, we, we have, our brain has these sensor arrays.
All of our senses are sensor arrays, actually.
And our brain does a lot to reduce, um, reduce them.
Um, uh, sorry, to just select, it does a lot to just, uh, take some amount of information and then reduce that information to a usable amount.
It, it's, uh, if we had, if we had a way to augment our minds to have a lot more simultaneous pattern recognition, we could increase the resolution of our minds.
It would, it wouldn't, it, it, um, I would say it might, uh, it might deep, it might deepen the experience of, of, of awareness, I guess, to have, uh, more deeply integrated patterns.
But then again, it's like, you know, you know, you know, going back to the descriptions of Ken, of Ken Wilbur and the maps of reality, it's like the, um, you know, there's a description of, like, there's a ground of being, which is just awareness.
And in this ground of being, this is where all forms arise.
And this is, this is from, like, I think it's from Buddhism, but it's like, if you experience just the, like, space of beingness in which all forms arise, that is a map of reality that is just as unclear as integrated information theory, but far older.
And I feel like, yeah, well, integrated information theory, it's like, to say that, you know, the brain is just integrated information, it's like, well, it's also, it's sort of like saying, well, the brain has information, which is hardly saying anything at all.
And it's not really saying anything more than, you know, the brain has, there's, there's, and consciousness has a ground of being, and then forms arise within that ground of being.
Like, it's just, it's just as, it's just as vague, right?
It's just as vague, but it's also really new.
Like, you didn't give, give any credit to the, to, to Buddhism for coming up with it, with its mental models that you're obviously, like, not that far away from.
Right?
Integrated information.
Right?
It's like the, it's not an innovation in human history.
Buddhism was an innovation in human history.
Yeah.
Uh, the ground of being.
Non-dualism.
The idea that, basically, that every thought is a distinction from holism.
And that's, and it's, it's, that's where I'm coming from.
It's like, yeah, yo.
And, um, so at the time that I was looking at, at Ken Wilber's, uh, work, he was working with, uh,
Jim Poroshi, who was an abbot, who I think retired.
But, uh, Jim, Jim Poroshi created Big Mind and Big Heart.
And, um, and, uh, I, I, I, I purchased also the Ken Wilber's, uh, Integral Life Practice, uh, Kit.
And, um, they walked you through a number of, basically, mind-expanding perspectives, where, like, the one, two, three of God, where you tried on the first person, second person, and third person perspectives.
The first person, you were one with God, second person, you were in a relationship with God, and the third person, you were considering other, other people's relationships to each other and their relationships to God or something, I forget, but, something like that.
Um, and, um, the idea was, um, and then with Big Mind, Big Heart, you got to take on, so, when you're the voice of Big Mind, you, like, you shift in your seat and you become this voice.
So, Big Mind is, like, I, you know, you realize, wow, I, I'm, if you're Big Mind, you're everywhere, and there's nowhere you need to go because you're everywhere.
And when you're Big Heart, you're, you're, you're, you're, you know, it's like, there's, your heart is everywhere, and you're, you love everything, and, and then when you're, when you're Big Joy, you're, you know, it's like, these are great, you know, it's like, this great, joyful feeling that has nothing to do and nothing to get.
And, um, and even great, even great doubt, it's like, well, if you doubt everything, then there's nothing, there's, there's, there's really, um, there's no reason to hope, and if there's no reason to hope, that is a very liberating feeling.
It can be.
If you get to, like, truly, like, truly hope, if you're truly hopeless, that feels pretty good, because you don't, there's no burdens on you.
It's like, there's no reason to hope about anything, so you can just relax now.
You know, it's a, it's all uncertain, so you can just chill out.
Wait, are you sure about that, though?
It's like, um, like, great, great, great doubt, great hopelessness.
These are, these sound scary, but when you get really to the bottom of them, um, they're also liberating.
And, um, so he would walk you through, with big mind, big heart, they would walk you through the protector, the voice of the protector,
which, which, um, what do you do when you're up with the protector?
Well, that's a self-explanatory job.
You protect.
You protect the self.
You protect the body.
And it's like, so you ask yourself these questions.
Okay, so as this voice, what do you do?
Um, who, if we've got the function, the job is, the function is, you're the protector, or you're the, um, controller.
What does the controller do?
Well, it takes the function and it applies this function to everything.
Like, like the, like the, like the, um, the person who, who tries the hammer, who thinks everything is a nail.
So, when you're taking on the perspective of the protector, or the controller, or the, or the, um, uh, the, the, uh, innocent,
then you are basically playing that role towards everyone and everything, and in your imagination.
So, you're basically, like, exploring this voice.
Okay, so if I'm, if I'm the protector, I protect everyone else, and I protect myself, and I protect everything.
And, and, um, it's, um, it's, uh, it's also useful to sort of, like, take on, like, I, I mean, I, I didn't see him do this,
but I imagine it would be useful to take on archetypes, mythological archetypes.
If I am the, the, the, uh, uh, and, and, um, you know, you could take on, um, also, uh, voices from, from, from, from, you know, from, from, you could take,
you could take on voices from, from Marvel, Marvel comics, or from, uh, from Greek mythology, or, from, basically, from any tradition.
You could take, you could sit on, you could, you could sit in the character that you want, take it on, and explore it for your own, for the, for almost, like, the development of your own psychological patterns, uh, that, that, um,
that connect to these different characters, and, um, and I think even that you could, you could have, um, an experiment where people, uh, sort of, like, uh, take on other people that they're,
they become other people in, in a guided meditation, they become other people that they've been having conflict with.
They become those people. So, like, it's like, it's like you're embodying the pattern that, that you've been using to, um, to understand someone else's mind.
Your own mind's model of someone else's mind. And you embody their pattern, you become them. So you can, but the purpose is not so you can become them.
Um, it's so that you can develop your, your, your, your pattern for their, for understanding who they are.
You want to develop, uh, your pattern for understanding who they are. Um, so you can understand how to, um, uh, more successfully, um, either avoid them or interact with them.
Um, or to resolve conflicts that you have with them, whether it, in terms of, in terms of, like, your model, in terms of resolving your model of reality,
that this, this, this is separate from resolving your real world conflicts with them, you know, actually, but, like, resolving your inner conflicts with them.
So that you, so that if you encounter them, you, you would have a strategy, uh, ready.
Because you, because you are not conflicted anymore. So if you encounter them again, you'd have a strategy ready.
It's like you're developing your, your own patterns through this, through this practice called Big Mind, Big Heart.
Your own mental patterns. Um, and, and I think that, that had value for, for me and for a lot of people, like, mind-expanding value.
Because you could become the way, the way that is everywhere and everything, right?
The way is, is something that, that, um, um, uh, has been spoken of in religious, by many, by multiple, like, religious leaders across traditions.
Like, the, the, the way is, um, like, the way things are. It's like the way of the cosmos.
The way is, um, everywhere and everything. It is another version of Big Mind and Big Heart.
It is this sort of, like, omnipresent way. And it's the polarity of the seeker.
Like, you understand that the seeker is the one that's striving. And the seeker, when, when you say, I am the seeker,
I'm the one who's always thirsty for more information. The brain is always seeking.
And it's never satisfied. Like, once you get something, then you want something else.
You can never be totally satisfied. But, but the seeker is also the polar viewpoint of the way.
Okay. So the seeker is this sort of, like, high-frequency phasic seeking, this pattern that's always, like, um, incomplete and always hungry and always wants and always desires and always leads to suffering, but also always leads to life.
And, um, and then, so when you alternate, you say, well, the seeker is also the way, so I'm also the way, the way that is everywhere and everything.
I'm entropy. I'm extropy. Serving entropy. You know, or whatever.
Uh, you're the, you're the, you're the, you're the process of the cosmos, basically.
You're the, the, the, the, um, you're the atoms shooting out of the star and now, and now tumbling together and, and, uh, into, uh, into knots.
It's a gravitational knot.
You're the way. And, um, so being the way is being everyone, everywhere.
And, um, but the way we are the way is by also embodying the seeker.
Or, or the seeker is that, you know, the path seeker.
Because we couldn't find the path unless we were also seeking it.
So the, so the way is the path, and the seeker finds the path, and the seeker finds the self.
And so the observer, I guess, you could say, well, the observer is the way, and the, the, the neural, the neural, uh, phasic firing pattern is, is the path of the seeker.
Or charting through the, charting through the, charting through the, the, um, the bed of, of the array of the oscillating field, oscillating phase field.
Um, charting the patterns through it.
And, um, so, um, so that's why, so that's how I connect, yeah.
Um, like Buddhism, and spiral dynamics, and Ken Wilber, um, but also Douglas Hofstadler, and then, um, and then I use that sort of, say, to, to make an argument that, you know, that integrated information theory is undifferentiated between the resolution of, of the textures in your consciousness.
Uh, and, uh, and, and your consciousness itself.
So, my argument is, yeah, is that is, is that your graphical awareness, um, is, um, has a resolution, and that resolution would be defined by, would be, uh, could be defined by phi.
But, that self-awareness has no resolution, and, um, and is, it is about the design of, self-awareness is about the design of the circuit.
And so, um, you say, well, with self-driving car, it has a feedback loop.
It does, it does.
So, isn't it self-awareness, and self-driving car?
Uh, it's not, it's not, it's not, let's just say, it's not human-like, self-awareness, it's not human-like, um, that a, uh, and it's not, let's just say that it's not, um, because, because you can have a car that is, has its own rendering of reality.
And it has, it has, and, it's not, um, you can even render tactile sensations.
You can render the patterns associated with feelings, you can render them.
Um, but, it's the, it's, it's, it's not just the, the patterns looping together in a feedback loop.
It's also the frequency.
It's the, it's the, it's, no, it's specifically the temple, what makes us human-like.
What makes our minds human-like, what makes our minds human-like, is the temporal-spatial, um, frequency of the oscillations of these patterns, um, of these, the oscillations of these matrices of patterns.
It's the temporal-spatial frequency.
So you could have, um, uh, the, this, but, but, but, I should say more than that, it's the temporal-spatial frequency of the, um, of the circuit that interlaces, uh, different sets of, of patterns together.
Um, um, and, um, so you could have lower resolution patterns that would, you know, so, and, and, and I suspect that, you know, so, for example, if, if my hypothesis is right, then a dog should have lower resolution patterns.
Right?
And, but also a child should have lower resolution patterns, because they haven't had enough time to develop the resolution.
And so, so you could say, well, maybe at some point, um, uh, the reality for a dog is, like, so maybe for a human being, reality is, like, like, um, if, if we were to say, um, let's just, let's point to two video games, okay?
So, um, we've got the, this old video game from, you know, 1985 called, called Streets of Rage 2.
It was a Streets of Rage 3, Streets of Rage 2, or, or another one is Street Fighter 2.
Street Fighter 2 was another fun game.
Mortal Kombat was another game.
But these are old, these are old games that came out in the 1980s.
And, uh, in the, the modern, the modern games, uh, you know, there's, like, Grand Theft Auto, uh, 5, um, there is, uh, Counter-Strike, and these are, these are much more 3D, the graphics are, are better, um, uh, what is the, Fortnite?
Fortnite is a, as a modern video game, uh, people play a lot of, um, uh, there's this new video game.
VR version of, of, uh, of the game, um, Resident Evil 4, and, um, Resident Evil 4, number 4.
Um, and the, the, um, the, the thing is that, um, let's imagine that the, um, the dog's mind is able to
render reality as, as, as, as mentally complex as, as a game from 1980, like, you know, like, the Ninja Turtles game, or the Shinobi game, you know, like, let's say, let's say that when a dog is a puppy, it's just rendering, and the same thing as, like, when a, when a child is, it's just, just, just, just a child.
That the reality that the rendering has, like, the, the rendering complexity of something like Pac-Man, or, uh, or Paperboy, just a really simple 2-bit, you know, not 2-bit, but, you know, like an 8-bit video game.
Um, and, and, and then the complexity, um, increases, um, by interval until, like, you know, at some point, the, the, the, the child was, just, had the complexity of, of, their, their knowledge of, of, in, in, in, in terms of, like, if you think of the video game as not just graphics, but also the knowledge of, uh, functions.
Like, um, there are video games like Super Mario that involve very few buttons, just lots of, you know, jumping and running, jumping and running, and pressing forward, right?
Pressing forward, that's what you need, basically. Jumping and running and pressing forward. You can, I think you can press backwards, but it's not really necessary, um, in Mario.
You know, you could just run all the time. Um, and, you know, but the, but the functional complexity is not, is not very great.
And then you have games where, like, an RPG, where there's, like, you have to, you have to go through all these steps of, of equipping your character, and buying, you know, items for your character,
and killing low-level monsters, to get money, to buy things for your character, and to build up, like, um, you, basically, your character has to work to get things.
So that it can, so that it can, so that it can go, so that it can then go and battle bigger monsters, and then get even more things.
And then eventually, your character, um, might, uh, save the world, or, or die, or, you never, you never know, with, with, um, with RPGs, where the story's gonna go.
So, you know, you know, sometimes they make your favorite character die.
Like, oh, man, it was that one, one girl, who, who, that one girl in the entire universe, who, who spoke, before spoke, before being spoken to, and she died.
Like, there's, there's only one girl who's ever been the first person to speak to a guy.
And that was Aeris.
Don't you know how rare and precious she was?
And then you killed her.
That's what they did, in Final Fantasy VII, the first time.
It was so tragic, it was like, there's, there's never been a girl like Aeris before, who spoke first, before spoke being spoken to.
