=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0097y Watercolor Neuron Signals
First recorded: 2021-10-24T09:46:34.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/9ba67647-812f-4aa2-b2bf-5e52b97994c3
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So, Neural Tomography from Synaptically Captured Patterns makes sense if you consider that Fourier Slice Projection Theorem relies on the intersections between different 2D slices in order for the computer to construct a 3D model from 2D slices.
And, um, so if, so if you're able to combine multiple perspectives in an algorithmic way, which the, which would, which the combined, um, abilities of, like, if you, if you took, if you had several dendrites, and they each, uh, captured part of a picture, uh, a pattern, and they each fired in a way that overlaid the pattern that they captured on other patterns,
sort of like watercolor overlaid on top of watercolor, or, you know, red pixels combined, combined with the pattern of blue pixels, combined with the pattern of green pixels, leads to the displays that we have, um, or music actually consists of many frequencies combined together.
Um, like, um, like, it's basically like, um, the, um, the, um, the decompression signal, or the, or the, uh, so there's compression, and then there's, um, then there's, uh, expansion, uh, of, uh, in a neural network.
And the expansion, um, you know, for example, uh, I, I think it was, you know, for, in olfactory, the, uh, neural network expansion, uh, for each neuron is, like, six cells or something?
I was reading that in a paper.
I don't know if that's correct, but I, I just read that.
And, um, um, but the idea is that, um, is that everything that compresses, the signals that compress into, you know, it's been, scientists have said, well, the neuron, uh, spike represents some sort of, like, uh, one or zero, all or nothing, um, uh, sort of summary.
And, and, and, I don't, I don't, and, sort of, like, um, I'm arguing that the, uh, there's four possible signals, uh, there's zero, one, two, and three, that, um, the neuron can pass on.
So it can, so it can transmit a phase change, and that phase could be, like, um, you know, a move faster, or move slower, or, or, you know, that type of signal.
And, um, and, um, as far as how it's interpreted by, by the six, uh, axons and, uh, the six, uh, uh, branches of, of its exit terminal.
And, so, um, uh, you know, if there's a coincidence of, uh, of, uh, inputs of dendrite in the next, uh, column,
and that means that, um, multiple, uh, cells have fired to each contribute their own piece of the pattern together.
Like a watercolor. It gets combined. You know, when neurons fire together, they start oscillating together.
Which, you know, it's, it's been suggested that, that neurons fire together, I think, um, it's more like they, they oscillate together.
And then they reach equilibrium with a, um, with their, uh, oscillating, with a larger oscillating group, uh, eventually.
Unless there are new perturbations coming in from, uh, the incoming senses that continue to, um, uh, cause new network activity.
In addition, the, um, you know, in the morning when people wake up, uh, the brain, uh, gets the, the neural activity going with, uh, like, brand,
I guess it's like random pulses of dopamine, which, um, you know, the, the, uh, the neurotransmitters, um, they're gonna cause,
they're gonna cause, uh, some excitement in terms of the, the activity of action potentials, right?
They're gonna, uh, cause, they're gonna trigger some, some, uh, some receptors to open, uh, just by accident.
So you'll see, you know, scientists saying, whoa, it seems like, you know, adding dopamine caused this mouse's, this, uh, dopamine or, um, GABA or, or acetylcholine or any other neurotransmitter.
And you'll see these, like, papers coming up saying that mice's memory seemed to get better after we gave it more, more neurotransmitters.
And, uh, there's lots of papers that are similar sounding like that.
Um, yeah, well, you know, obviously these neurons were, uh, excited by the, uh, neurotransmitter injection.
That's, it's pretty much, um, the common story, you know, across all neurotransmitters, across every place in the brain.
Um, you know, like, well, they could be inhibited, they could also be, you know, the brain can be inhibited besides being excited.
And, uh, so it just depends on, on what chemical you're, you're giving.
But I'm just, like, suggesting that the memory benefits of different neurotransmitters are, are probably, uh, related to what area of the brain there they are, uh, exciting the most, I guess.
Yes. Okay, let's look at the transcript.
So we were looking at tomography.
I was saying, I was trying to explain why neurotomography really makes sense.
That it is sort of like watercolor on top of watercolor on top of, on top of an array that consists of a lot of other neurons.
So it's like, it's like combining, you know, the pattern learned by, by one neuron.
And the pattern learned by, by one neuron is, um, is an expectation in terms of, in terms of phases.
Um, but it's an expectation change in, in terms of what the brain is currently representing.
So, it's, it's, um, what I'm getting at is, is, is that, um, in order for your incoming senses to, um, to be rendered by your mind, to have an impact on your mind, so you can have internal representations.
Um, you need to have something that receives those internal senses and sort of, like, responds and reacts to those internal senses and engages with those internal senses.
So your internal senses and your, your, your internal processes are coming together.
And, and that is sort of like, um, this watercolor idea of, this watercolor example, sorry, just a watercolor example of how, um, the dendritic phases are being layered on top of one another.
Sort of like, you know, um, like red, like red, like red LEDs and, and green LEDs and, and blue LEDs, uh, you know, being layered on top of one another.
And then we, we would have, like, the LEDs, LEDs would go just completely dark for, um, for, to represent the, uh, the color black.
And that would be inhibition.
And then you'd have all three, red, green, and blue to indicate, uh, the color white.
And then, um, cause that is a combination of all colors.
And then you just, um, yeah, and then you just, like, have different combinations of different colors, right?
And, and then you're, then you're creating, like, um, the image on a screen, on a TV screen.
And that's good, that's, that's, that's, those are good, uh, visual analogies.
Um, you, for sound, you'd have to break it down into, um, you know, if, if you look at, if you look at sound in a sound creation tool, um, or with the Fourier transform, you can see that, uh, music, music has a track,
and the track actually can be separated into different frequencies that are playing together.
You can use the Fourier transform to isolate the different frequencies and identify, um, the patterns that are, that are, uh, being combined into the, the music that you have.
But you can separate out those patterns and you can see what they are.
And the same process is sort of used for EEG waves, and EEG waves are, um, sort of represent, uh, the, the largest scale of, of, of electric dipole activity in the brain.
Um, and, uh, they, uh, it's a shame, my idea for EEG is, like, you know, like, well, what if we have, so, it's like, it's, it's, if you have two, if you put two, you know, if you put two electrodes, right, and you run it, the, the, the tiniest amount of current between the two electrodes.
Well, when you, when your brain waves, um, as your, as your, as your brain waves are flowing out of your skull, they're going to cause vibrations in, in the current that's running across the surface of your skull.
And those vibrations in, in, in the, uh, uh, are what, um, EEG sensors are tracking.
They're sensing, uh, um, sort of, like, you know, the emanations of your, of your brain's, um, electric dipoles, um, are causing the current running between your electrodes to, um, to, uh, oscillate at different frequencies.
Um, and, um, so then we can capture that as a numerical value that represents that voltage, and then, um, you know, convert that into some sort of, like, computer program, like we, what we did with, um, um, um, there was a project that I called, that I, I, it was, it was a project, um, that I called the, uh, narrow hacks or project.
And it involved bringing EEG into WebVR back, back, back, before it was called WebXR, and that was, um, that was back in, um, 2018.
And I was leading a, uh, group of folks, um, at Noisebridge just about every week on a Friday, and then later on in the year, at least I switched to Thursday just to try it.
Um, and ended up, uh, finishing out the year on Thursday, but, but, um, but yeah, we'd meet about once a week, uh, I think from about February until, I think maybe December.
And, um, and each week, it was almost a new group of people, but I was there, you know, and sometimes we get regulars.
And, um, there was a separate group on Wednesday that, uh, they bought a Brainduino device, and on, um, so on Friday we were able to, we asked, I asked them, I said, can we use this for our project on Friday?
They said yes, and so they developed the, um, the sort of, uh, they led, they led the development of connecting the Brainduino to the computer and then broadcasting its signals.
Um, so they wrote, like, a server, uh, they wrote multiple servers that would serve us the EEG sensor code, uh, to the web page in real time so that we could run a program, uh, wirelessly through the web page, um, on a VR headset.
And luckily at that time we had the, uh, the Oculus Go, which had, uh, WebVR working in it, and we were able to, uh, uh, send the, we were able to, uh, you know, use a, use a web socket to receive inside the, uh, uh, the web page to, in the Oculus Go, to receive the EEG signals that someone was, was wearing that were being sent to the computer that was there in the room with us.
Which, which, which contained a server that was broadcasting those signals over the network to the person writing the VR headset, who was also wearing the EEG signals.
Um, so we weren't sending the EEG signals directly to the, um, to the VR headset, but through the computer first, and then over the network, uh, to the headset.
Um, there was a lot of speculation about doing it in a different way, but, uh, I think that given, given the time that we had, you know, we're just, we're just like, these are just people, these are just random people who are for free meeting up and volunteering their time to work together to, um,
um, on a project that, um, on a project that, that had an amazing scope for, um, like, nobody was being paid.
And, nobody was being paid to work.
Uh, but we, but, but, um, but, uh, thanks to the collective efforts of everyone involved, we were able to, um, I was able to, uh, observe and participate in bringing this project, uh, to fruition.
So, we had EEG inside WebVR.
It was super cool.
Um, the code is, of course, still available on github.com slash, um, Micah with the number one.
So, M-I-C-A-H with the number one.
You can still get the code for that.
But, it needs to be updated, uh, in terms of, like, it was written for WebVR, and now WebVR has been replaced with WebXR.
So, WebXR is a single API that can be used to create, uh, VR or AR experiences.
Um, but the, uh, but, but now it's called WebXR.
And, um, but yeah, so this also kind of, like, um, you know, what's interesting is, is, um, you know, this can inform, like, I guess you could inform the design of neural networks to sort of, um, create, like, a phase, um, field layer.
Right, right?
That's basically, you know, in neural networks you have, um, like, an expansion layer, and you have, um, uh, a compression layer.
Right?
So, the network is expanding a signal, and then it's compressing, and then it's in one layer, and, um, it's, it's, or it's compressing a signal in one layer, and then it's expanding it to the next layer.
And, um, uh, but it's, it's, um, you know, I guess it's like, you know, I guess a phase, so a phase, you know, in the sense of the brain, uh, in terms of the brain's computation is, is, like, between one, two, three, and four.
So that is a significant difference.
Um, and then that phase pattern is, you know, so each layer in the brain is, like, an array that's watching the previous layer, or watching the other layers.
And then combined, um, it has, uh, the, um, it has the configuration of, of, um, the configuration properties of the network, basically, um, sort of, sort of, like, clumping together, like, um, like many examples of the game of life,
where you have, um, um, oscillations forming between the neurons that fired, um, uh, together in time, or together in space, um, or, or in, uh, a coincident pattern across scales.
Um, because, because, um, because basically the neural network can, can track, um, coincident patterns across scales.
Like, I mean, there, there's examples of, of, of, of it.
When you can, um, when you can, you know, use the prediction of a sequence in something that's really small to then, um, apply to the coincidence to, to something that's really big.
Like, if you try to take something you, like, some physics that you understand in terms of, um, you know, at the micro scale, um, you can try to see if that might apply to macro scale.
Um.
