=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0093y Dress Neurons Sort
First recorded: 2021-10-26T04:30:16.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/f8f1385c-7574-4d58-9944-3ec5223e2979
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
I just had the idea of, like, imposter selves, or basically they would appear to be a person, but they would really be like a monster, sort of like the video game Prey from 2017, where, like, his coffee mug, like, turned into this, like, multidimensional monster that had, like, tentacles or something, but it was all made of smoke, and it sort of, like, attacked him and tried to eat him.
And I just think that, like, I just imagined that the, um, basically that there could be an alien that, like, looks like a person until it looks, like, close to you, and then you realize it's not a person, it's just, like, um, a mimicry of someone.
And I was imagining its predatory journey just now, it was really cool.
So, locked-in patients, uh, you know, and locked-in patients, like, how can we, um, help to rescue locked-in patients and people who, you know, even people who have been diagnosed as brain-dead can potentially, uh, be revived, are brought back with, with the knowledge of, uh, really working.
And, you know, I'm, so, what I'm suggesting is, is, is that, um, if repair can be done to whatever is inhibiting global brain activity, and the, the, the, the oscillatory behavior of networks can be, could be stimulated to, um, to, back to activity again,
and then patients who have, uh, varying degrees of disability because of impaired brain activity, um, could potentially be, um, restored.
And not, so, not just locked-in patients, patients who are, but patients who are, um, you know, injured in, in, in, in, in a way that they may have, um, have, uh, um, they might be paralyzed after a spinal injury or something.
And, and, and, and, so the knowledge of, of, of the protocols of the networks of neurons and the, uh, the nature of the, of, um, these oscillate, oscillating networks might, might, uh, might yield some, some innovative treatments.
I hope we can get creative with, uh, combining AI with VR and AR, uh, communication pathways for people who have varying degrees of impaired, of impaired functionality.
Um, this can have, uh, medical value for, for people who's, you know, in situations where their impaired functionality is leading them to, um, uh, to,
to have, uh, uh, to be in, in, in, in stressful situations where they, where they, they may have caused harm to themselves or to others in the past.
Um, um, an understanding exactly how the brain produces, the phenomenal experience of consciousness and, and how to repair it means a lot to people who are, uh, around the world who are, who are suffering from, from, uh,
uh, a variety of different stuff, cognitive illnesses.
So, um, it's, it's not, this, this book is a few, I see it as, like, a few extra links.
It's a proposal for how things might fit together.
Um, and, um, in, in, in, in some cases, uh, these are, these are, these are, the, a lot of the ideas need to work.
A lot of the ideas need to be developed further.
And, um, we need to have, um, basically some, some additional facts established, um, with, uh, years of, potentially years of, uh, of research that's enhanced.
I want to say that we have centuries of research ahead of us, but with the advancements in, in artificial intelligence, centuries of research could be turned to, could become, uh, really just, um, really it could become just, uh, a week of research.
So, yeah, so let's, yeah, that's a little bit, there's a little bit of humor in that.
Um, you know, um, you know, obviously the, uh, the, um, the physical component of, of research is, um, is significant.
Um, a lot of studies, uh, involve a lot of, uh, highly coordinated movements.
And that is sort of one of the bandwidth factors on, on how fast medical innovation can advance.
It's, it's just, uh, there's a lot of, uh, logistics involved with, um, studies.
But, um, but there is a huge amount of, like, so studies cost a lot of money.
Scientific studies cost a lot of money.
And the, the studies that we really want to do involving, uh, millions of, millions of people participating in a study that is done in a very consistent way, in a very methodical way, such as the Child Mind Institute.
Like, that, that study could be, could be expanded ideally, uh, sorry, which way are you going?
That way, okay, go ahead.
Uh, so, that study could be expanded.
I mean, I, I would love to see, like, um, China, you know, sort of, China has, really, this massively impressive operation in existence for, for, um, for, you know, that we, that we saw at work, you know, in the post-COVID-19 era.
Uh, with how they, with how China reacted to COVID-19 in its initial days in this, like, massively coordinated way.
And they were able to do something huge and fantastic, um, and then, of course, you know, everyone wants to, to, it's not like, it's not like people in China are not criticizing each other.
And, you know, it's not like, for, for, for the things, like, for example, there's been an enormous amount of, uh, industrial, uh, mistakes.
Uh, in terms of, you know, building, I've, I've heard, you know, in terms of, like, building towns where there are no people, uh, because they're just, the estimates about the, the usage of these towns they were building would, were just incorrect.
Uh, in some cases, uh, there, there are giant companies that are going to fall now because they made very bad investments that could take down, not just the, not just, um, the Chinese economy, but also the global economy.
So we're facing, um, basically, uh, potentially, uh, potentially, like, a global economic crash because of mass, because of the massive scale, uh, of, of China and the decisions that are, that are made there at high levels, not, not necessarily always being the best decisions.
Um, but what, but it would be, like, if, if, if we could somehow, like, um, work with everyone in the world to sort of, like, to come up with ideas about how, um, you know, what sort of, like, large scale projects would actually be worth, uh, investing in.
That are going to help their global economy in the long term.
And one of those is science.
Uh, okay, so I think I'm good here.
Well, the question is, like, well, um, so these, these are, these ideas are okay, but how can we, how can we, what is the evidence out there for or against these ideas?
And what, and what is, what is, um, the path for the evidence that hasn't been collected?
What is the path going forward that can, uh, demonstrate and prove, um, what's going on with the brain, you know, for or against these ideas?
Um, I think we have to look at, um, the advances in medical imaging technologies left.
We have to look at sort of, like, every scale of medical imaging from, from, uh, you know, from optogenetics to patch clamp, uh, uh, to, to putting a patch clamp on a cell to measure its, its, um, changes to its electric, uh, electric and electromagnetic properties.
Uh, you know, how are, how is the ion charge building up?
How, what are the, I mean, there are studies like, okay, so like, let's focus on calcium, calcium receptors, calcium receptors opening and closing in the dendrite.
And people are saying, okay, well, how do microtubules move in and out of the synapse?
How do they move?
Why do they move?
What are they doing?
Um, you know, besides the idea that they provide some sort of structural support, uh, there's the idea that they transport essential proteins in and out of the cell, uh, in and out of the spine.
I'm sorry, in and out of the spine.
That's the idea, that they, they, they, they may transport essential proteins.
They seem suited for that purpose.
Um, but they also seem to be, you know, you can argue, well, that a microtubule, uh,
uh, the, the, the association with memory, the, the associations with memory are, are manifold.
I mean, they're in the synapse, first of all.
And the synapse is, is in my hypothesis, the main memory system, right?
So, so, so, so, so the microtubules and the, uh, the, uh, the actin and the filaments, these are, um, these are all the, uh, mechanical components of, of, of the, the enthrase growing spines that then, that, that may connect to other neurons.
That may connect to specifically, um, that, they, they become the path between neurons that fired, uh, together at the same time.
So, like, you have two neurons in there that continue to fire together at the same time.
And a path, it's sort of like a path grows between them.
What is it guided by?
Is it guided by, like, you know, like, how does, you know what I mean?
Like, it's like, imagine that, um, it's like, it's like somebody saying, okay, we need a road between, uh, the two points that, that fired.
And arguably, the two points that fired are the ones that argued the road to be built between them, right?
But it's just like, but, what is, like, how, how does the, because, you know, you, with, with knowing how oscillations work, we can argue that two neurons that, uh, that fire together, um, are gonna be increasingly likely to fire together.
Again, simply for the fact that they're oscillatory clocks, uh, matched at least, at least at one point.
Because, if they're close enough in time or space, or, or scale similarity, uh, or, you know, pattern similarity, I guess, across space, time, and scale.
It's possible that they could become linked through oscillation, through the, that's, that's either through the literal oscillation, or the functional, or the, the, the indirect oscillation.
Right, they, they, they, they sort of, like, absorb each other's, they're, they're oscillating at one unit.
Are, are there filaments, this is, growing, um, I think it's also, I think it's also that, um, it's like the principle of, of, of, um, blood flows, where, in a certain direction, that, that sort of, like, drives the direction of plant growth, or cell growth.
Being spheres are attractive electromagnetically, because that's where space is, that's sort of, like, where, where the incitement is happening, and it's, that's where, that's where exciting signals are being, being broadcast out of.
That's like the source of, uh, heat and energy, and it is, like, it's, it's, it's stimulating in a way that causes, um, and, uh, it causes the increased likelihood that particles are going to travel in, in, in that direction, versus some other direction.
It's, it's, and, it's, and, and, and that increased likelihood from the excitation and the, the combined oscillation and something like, like the principle of, of, of, of, uh, Bose, um, Einstein condensate, uh, is, um, just, uh, both stimulating and attractive.
So, stimulating and attractive.
So, it's the stimulation that's causing attraction, right?
Okay, and so, I think the reason that, I think the reason that, that, that, that, when neurons fire together, they fire together at a faster rate than the rest of the neurons that are firing in a slower rate.
Okay, okay, so I didn't, okay, so I am recording.
So, they're, so they're, they're firing at a, at a phasic rate.
So, this is, they're firing much faster than the rest of the oscillation.
So, they are both the source of where, where energy is going.
So, in a sense, um, but the other thing is that, you know, what else is true is that the neurons that, that fired are the neurons that are, are, um, that are expressing energy at a faster rate.
And, and there the neurons says, so when they're expressing energy, I want to grow towards something, or it is growing towards something at a faster rate because it's firing more often.
And, and it's going to grow towards, and it's going to grow towards, and it's going to grow towards other neurons that fired within a similar proximity because that's where an energy source seems to be coming from, right, or a stimulation source.
So, the stimulation source is drawing, uh, uh, the, the, the, the, the source of the stimulation is coming with the energy to be drawing connections to, uh, to the next energy source.
And that could be a good explanation for how, um, uh, spines develop connections in, in a network of, of neurons across vast distances.
It, it, it, it's, um, yeah.
Yeah, so, I mean, that, it does explain why, you know, I guess, you know, so the, so what's interesting is that, you know, people have used TACS, uh, simulation during sleep, and they, it's claimed that it improves memories.
I think that it's kind of interesting, the idea that, um, during sleep that you're, that you are going to...
So, my idea is that what we will do is, um, we'll get that blue and gold, the dress, it's like, is it blue with gold, or is it gold with light, right, get that dress.
Now, what we're doing is we'll create, like, a background that's, like, all blue dresses with gold trim, like, the sort of cartoons, just suggesting that idea.
And then, um, we'll look for, like, backgrounds that have the, sort of, like, same, uh, assumptions about the lighting of the room that, in which, in which case your eyes interpret, like, the blue dress.
Uh, we'll have those same assumptions put into, like, the background, like, furniture colors and stuff for the room.
So, we're suggesting that it is a dark room and there's a blue dress in it, and in all these other examples of blue dresses.
And then, but then we'll do, like, and we'll, and we'll put the, put the thing right in the middle and see if we can get everyone to see a blue dress in it.
And then, what we'll do is we'll get the other one for the, we'll get a bunch of, uh, we'll do a separate one.
Uh, so it's, now we're just going to do another, like, sort of, like, collage of, uh, of white dresses with gold trim.
And then, um, we're going to put them all over the place.
Like, some are, like, you know, again, cartoons, some of them are, like, real white dresses with gold trim.
Just, we're suggesting that pattern over and over again to the brain.
And then, we're pretending, like, the room is really, like, um, well, but, or whatever the background interpretation is in the photo in which a person sees, like, the white dress with gold trim.
Like, the, the interpretation of the color environment, whether you think it's, like, uh, you know, a dark environment, sort of, it determines your eyes' interpretation of the color.
And it's, like, your sense of, of what that place is, your assumption of what that, of that place is, your expectation of what that, of that place is, your expectation of what that environment is, and how light, or what, you're, you're, you're estimating the lighting of the environment.
And that's why your brain's interpreting that color, because it has, it's adjusting for the color, um, in consideration of the lighting.
So, it can, it can, uh, render a color, it can render, it can identify, um, the color, um, by the, by its, uh, irrespective of the lighting conditions.
So, it's, like, um, taking into account that it's not recognizing the same, uh, color pattern, but it's able to, like, make an estimate of what the color.
So, it's, like, it's, like, your brain is, um, like, actually doing the shading and rendering, the graphical shading and rendering of that chair to adjust its color so you know it's green.
And, um, it makes it distinct for you when, when you're, when you're, when you're thinking about, like, the greenness of green, that, that, that, like, the greenness becomes very distinct.
And, and just be in green, greenness, right? Just enjoy the greenness.
It's, like, like, in a virtual reality program, when you're, like, you're, like, you're just, you're just wandering through, wandering through, you're, like, it's, like, Alice in Wonderland, and Alice just ran off after the,
uh, White Rabbit, and then, so, now you're, like, wandering around in, in this garden, and it's just, like, this weird, crazy garden, and there's these guards that are cards, and,
and, uh, and you can just be absorbed in the greenness.
No, but, so, yeah, so, they, so, I guess the story was, um, I think that, that would be a great way to, like, display those, those costumes, so.
Um, and we'll see if we can, like, you know, put them next to each other so we can have the gold, the, the white version of the dress with, that's evoked.
We're going to try to evoke it with, uh, patterns of white dresses, and we're going to try to evoke, evoke the, uh, the blue dress with patterns of blue dresses.
And we'll try to see if we can put them next to each other so that people can, like, quickly go back and forth between the two different interpretations.
And, um, and, um, and we'll just say, we'll just have one image and say, okay, just cover half the image.
Just cover half the image and slide it, like, slide it over, um, and flip, like, flip it over.
So just cover half the image at a time.
And we'll have all these, like, blue dresses that try to trick you into seeing a blue dress.
And then when you flip it over, then you'll have all these, you'll see all these white dresses that are trying to trick you into seeing a white dress.
