=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0096y Neurons Array Perspective Interlace
First recorded: 2021-10-24T16:50:24.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/1f1aec4c-3937-4f47-8e6e-51f345d52060
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
An array of sensors magnify the patterns for another array to detect. It magnified patterns to create pattern representations of your senses for other neurons to detect and magnify additional insights to another array of neurons.
So the next set of neurons is going to render a different perspective or a different idea or a different concept or a different sort of, like, yeah, just like, you know, many times I think perspective will be perspective at a different scale or from a different point of view, but in any case, the whole rendering of your conscious experience consists of basically, like,
temporal patterns and spatial patterns that represent your incoming sensory patterns sort of, like, overlaid and interlaced with one another. Like, conscious reality is the interlacing of audio patterns with tactile patterns and visual patterns.
And that is accomplished, like, from the multi-layers of rendering across space and across time and across different scales in the brain's oscillators.
And tangentially, a good tangent is, um, I love that scene in the movie Blade Runner 2049 when he, when he has, I don't really love, I don't really like that scene, but I, I find that scene interesting in retrospect because he's, he's, uh, he says the words interlace several times and it's like, well, what, well, does it have to do with the fact that he's, like,
he's, like, he's, like, he's, like, he's, like, he's, like, an android made out of, uh, human DNA, but he's a mechanical android, and so what does the word interlaced mean for him?
Um, interlaced patterns, um, it's, like, if you shot it, if you, if you projected, um, a, a phase that, um, a phase pattern that represented, uh, a tactile pattern
with a visual pattern with an audio pattern, you project them together onto the same, sort of, like, array, um, this is phase differentials.
They're different from each other. They're causing, they're, the patterns arriving in sequences.
But the idea is that, um, they, these patterns are, sort of, like, interlacing, or rather, they're going to be, um, interlacing as, uh,
uh, as, um, bits, as coincidence patterns detected by, um, um, by, uh, neurons in another row.
And, um, so they're interlacing, but they're also, when they fire together, they, they continue oscillating together.
Because, um, oscillations sort of, like, absorb or eat other oscillations.
And so you have two different oscillating neurons, if they fire at the same time, um, then, uh, they start oscillating.
And they, and they keep firing.
That means, like, their voltages both reach the same thing.
So they, so they, in theory, they both, they, they, if they both recognize that same pattern again, they're likely to fire together again.
And, or, I mean, the alternative is that one of them can become inhibited from firing when that new, at the time that, that pattern comes back and only one of them might fire.
But if you have, if six of them learn the same pattern and, and, and they all fire together and then, you know, three, three, uh, three of them, um, you know, were inhibited in one cycle.
And so, you know, just two of them managed to fire a representative of that pattern, maybe that would be enough to, um, to trigger, you know, action potentials to reach threshold or, you know, combine with other signals received from, um, from, from, uh, sort of, like, uh, from other neurons in, you know, that are firing after.
After words, like, in a different, um, step of the temporal sequence in a different, sort of, like, time interval, um, then, um, it could be that there's a coincidence across, that is occurring, not only, like, across time and across space, but across, but across scale simultaneously.
So it was, like, really complex.
The brain could, through several layers, track really complex, um, uh, multi-dimensional patterns.
Um, going, I think going beyond, um, going, I'd like to imagine that the brain can, um, go, uh, can detect patterns that are, that are, um, much more complex than what you can represent in, in, in four dimensions with three dimensions of space and one of time.
Like, I, like, like, well, I mean, there's the great, the great series, uh, of YouTube videos that talks about, you know, the fifth dimension and the sixth dimension, I'll have to find a link to it.
But, um, but, um, but you basically have, right there, by layering phases together in, in the next array, you have a, sort of, like, the basis for tomographic construction, or what I think, um, Numenta, the, Jeff Hawkins from Numenta is referring to as voting.
Um.
