=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0099y Consciousness Neurons Tactile Patterns
First recorded: 2021-10-23T01:42:37.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/6bd856ad-d35e-4283-a6a5-487c22e08ad9
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So, in effect, I have multiple theories for neural function.
I have multiple potentially compatible theories for brain function, for neural function.
And so the thing is, like, I'm presenting an idea that could be right, could be wrong, but also could work differently.
There's, like, different possible configuration ideas.
So, for example, like, I'm proposing that basically the basis of storage, stored memory, is in the configuration of the synapses of each neuron.
That that is where the storage of the information pattern that describes a room, a perspective in a room, a perspective in four-dimensional space.
Yeah, so, I mean, like, I imagine, like, I don't know how many dendrites it's going to take to represent a four-dimensional space, but I imagine it's just one.
Because, like, because you're just representing, like, just representing one perspective in space-time that includes the dimensions of space for one interval of time rendered from the perspective of your sensory organ.
So, that includes, like, that includes, like, the coincidental data from visual neurons and from the neurons that are focused on your touch patterns and neurons that are focused on learning your audio patterns.
That you could have, you know, maybe just one, maybe you'll have, like, one frame of consciousness that represents one perspective is represented by one synapse.
But then variations on that perspective, like, each variation that represents a different viewpoint could be represented as a pattern in another synapse.
You could have lots of overlap between representations of patterns in one area and patterns in another area.
So, if you walk past marble and then you walk past brick and then you walk past stone and you walk past all these different materials, there's, like, metal and there's concrete, there's plastic, paper, and so on and so forth.
You walk past all these different materials and it's, like, there could be pieces of patterns that are sort of, like, stored at, you know, the lowest levels of the cortex.
But then the, at the higher levels, how those pieces fit together is sort of, like, mapped in the same way as how the small pieces of, so, yeah, so, like, yeah, so, it goes back to, like, sort of, hierarchical learning where the lowest levels of a, of a neural circuit will capture the smallest details.
And then the, um, the higher, the higher, the higher you go up, it's going to capture, basically, the relationships between those low-level details.
And then it will, it will activate those low-level details in a sequence that plays out in, in the oscillator, thus giving you the perception, giving the organism the perception of, of reality.
The perception of seeing, hearing, smelling, tasting, and seeing reality.
Basically, as the, um, the, the, the, the playback of patterns rendered in, in the, the brain's oscillations.
Which makes really, like, a lot of sense, right?
Because if you think of what you're seeing as, like, a series of patterns that are being played back to you, like a volumetric video, right?
If, if, if your senses are creating a volumetric video for each instant of time, uh, but the volumetric video includes, like, um, patterns for sound, patterns for feelings, for what your, what your feelings are, for what your chest feels like, tactile sensations are being modeled with the sensor arrays.
And the sensor arrays are constructing dimensional representations of the tactile sensations, which are vibrating with the tactile sensations of, of, of, of light that are, uh, bumping into the retina of your eyeball.
That's right.
That's right.
The light is a, it can be, can also be kind of described as a, as tactile sensations also.
As if your hand, as if your, as if your, as if your retina was a hand.
It's really just an array.
But the sensors on your hand are really just an array.
The sensors on your tongue, your taste buds, that's, that's, like, a sensor array.
The, the hairs in your ears that react to sound waves, that's an array.
And so we are covered in arrays that are creating these basically pattern representations, these scale-invariant, overlaying pattern representations that our mind is able to make distinctions from.
That are traveling through, these patterns are traveling through our neural circuits so that we can have an inner voice by having different parts of our phasic firing basically send patterns that flow throughout the brain, through the brain's neural circuits.
And so you might have, your inner voice might have a direct sort of correlation to a certain string of neural firing.
