=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0102y Photocopier Neurons Oscillator Oct 22 2021
First recorded: 2021-10-23T00:23:43.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/bff66e94-56c7-446f-afda-dbe3ea135201
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
After I had this idea about the atom being a, about atoms combining to form, like, a ball, or in a planet, and then that planet having, like, a beam-forming, um, oscillation, like, if, like, if the, if that entire, like, if the gravity of a planet is, if you consider it's gonna create a lot of, um, up and down traffic,
so that, uh, it vertically, it's gonna create a vertical lane, um, of oscillating patterns in the phase field that are, it's gonna, that's gonna disrupt how many, um, horizontal patterns are available, and that sort of beam-forming property, uh, the, of, so I'm saying, yeah, so oscillations, uh, form beam, beams because they are attractive, like, they, they,
attract, um, the power bands converge, right, like, you have a bunch of, if you have oscillatory activity emerging from the same place, they're going to converge together, and so you have space squeezing, squeezing together, when, when you have oscillations increasing around, um, around vortices, around atoms and molecules, so, um, the space, so space-time is,
squeezing, squeezing, squeezing, squeezing together, only because, the, um, um, um, in terms of, like, the, the number of different, uh, ways that a particle can travel, um, there's an increase in, in vertical travel,
but, like, but, like, but waves also oscillate, so, like, like, it, like, it, it, the, the particle travels, it's a plane distant, and then that knocks another particle, and then that travel, then that particle travels,
and so, um, and so on, but anyway, that, that's, like, what I called, like, a lane, um, is that in, in the Bose-Einstein condensate, that is a beam, that's a beam, so that's, that, so that, that, that, so I just, like, hypothesized there could be a lane from,
um, uh, from the, the concentration of vertical, um, uh, uh, firing, oscillatory vertical firing,
actually, it doesn't matter if it's oscillatory, like, there could just be, like, a concentration of vertical firing,
that, this, this, that slows down horizontal firing, and so, because it takes longer for, um, because it's less, because it's less likely that a neuron is going to travel,
than, that, um, that something is going to travel horizontally than it is going to travel vertically,
right, because it's, like, it's, like, there's more that's going vertical, the closer you are to that atom, the more stuff is, like, by chance, going to go vertical than horizontal,
and so, um, so, basically, like, um, well, actually, so I'm not sure if that works, because, that means that the closer you are
to the atom, the more, more likely it is that you're going to get sucked into a vertical lane,
or attracted to the atom, and, and bond with it, if you can't go any, any closer.
All right, so, it's, like, it's, like, gravitational, uh, force, could, like, a, like, an attract, could be, like, the attractive force,
it's just, like, the odds of, of moving towards the atom, or towards the oscillator, are going to increase the closer you are to it,
so you might be bonded if you're really close, but, but, um, so, in that case, there are actually fewer horizontal lanes,
for the travel, so, um, so, stuff that's traveling horizontally might travel a lot faster,
relatively speaking, um, and if you get stretched out from that oscillator, then, then the power, the beams are going to be spread out,
they're going to disperse, like sun, like sunbeams, they're going to disperse, and so that means that
there's a lot more, um, potential, but, relatively speaking, there's a lot more potential for, um,
horizontal travel, so horizontal travel is going to have to, um, well, actually, hang on,
horizontal travel is fanned out because, relatively speaking, it's shit.
Well, the, the horizontal is, would be expanding between the beams, uh, that are shot out by the, uh, by the,
between the vertical beams, and so the, the distance that, that a particle would have to travel horizontally
is increased, uh, uh, relative to, the distance the particle has to travel horizontally if it's closer
to an oscillator, like an Earth.
So, if a particle has to travel a greater distance, because the beam is, relatively, relatively speaking,
a greater distance, then it's the warping of space that makes travel, makes particles travel,
um, shorter distances, to orbit.
So, if there's a shorter distance for a particle to orbit, then time, then the amount of time, or the
interval of time, is shorter.
And if a particle has to travel a longer distance, which is a higher orbit, then the interval of
time is longer, right?
Because it has to travel more horizontally, there's less vertical, um, there's less chance
that something has to travel vertically, the farther away it is from the center of an oscillation.
So, that sort of, like, um, explains why, relatively speaking, there's more space.
So, it doesn't explain why space is created, actually.
So, I have to rethink that.
I guess, no, no, no, no.
So, I guess, I'm not arguing that space is created by the, um, by the oscillator, because
that actually doesn't make sense.
I'm arguing that the curvature of space is defined by the oscillator, which gives, so that
would give you the, um, relative distinction of space.
So, space would be relatively slower away from the oscillator, the center of the oscillator,
and, um, it's, it's, uh, relatively slower.
And so, space would be, appear to be expanding, in a sense, because the, um, amount of time, the
between intervals is relatively greater than the amount of, than, than the amount of time,
at the horizontal, at the horizontal movement between oscillators, is going to be relatively
greater than the horizontal movement, um, close to the oscillator.
Far from the oscillator, it's, like, time is slowed down.
Um, you know, the interval, the, the time interval is between points of space, right, for a particle
to top, and one point of space to another.
And maybe the, um, maybe the particle represents sort of, like, an interval in time, right, and
it's, like, it's defined by where it lands, even if it, even if where it's going, you're going
to, like, it's, like, it's, like, it's, like, it's, like, it's, like, it's, like, it's, like,
but, yeah, so, but, like, for space away from atoms, it's just going to expand.
And it's going to expand, in a sense, because, I don't know, maybe, in a sense, there's, like,
a sort of, like, inverse pressure from, from the vertical waves that sort of, just sort
of, like, um, I'm trying to imagine how I have to revisit.
A computer can detect signals, um, uh, auditory, agglustatory, and visual signals, somatic sensory
signals, um, taste signals, uh, with sensor arrays, uh, just, just to, uh, with higher fidelity
than a human being can, and it can have, it can simulate physics, um, to process those
signals in exactly the way a human being would, um, sorry, not in exactly the way, but to
produce the exact same signal, uh, results.
It's, it's, um, a functional isomorphism.
So, like, if you imagine with, uh, like, imagine, like, with category theory, let's draw,
uh, let's draw a map, okay, so, we're going to have, I'm going to draw a map, and it's
going, it's going to, I'm going to use the note flow, and I'm going to draw, like, so,
I'm going to draw, like, A, which is the signal capture, is the signal capture, uh, from an
array, so, um, it's, like, the array could be, um, your, uh, your retina, your hand, your
tongue, ear, so signal capture, so we have A, and then, uh, let's make this smaller, here
we go, so then we also have, like, um, uh, or, or microphone, camera, other sensor device,
other sensor, sensory, uh, arrays, other artificial sensor arrays, right, and then, so we have
A, okay, and then, so A goes to, we just draw an arrow, and draw an arrow, to B, A to B, and
then we're going to put an arrow from A down to C, okay, and then we're going to draw, sorry,
yeah, A down to C, let me highlight this, okay, let's draw a C this time, so, okay, so you have
the letter A, and it has two arrows, and one points to the A's right, and that points to
B, and the other goes from A, and it goes down, uh, points down to C, now C is going
to point to the right, to D, and B is going to point down to D, so you see, um, so the point
that I'm trying to making is, uh, A is the sensor, is the sensor, uh, array, or artificial
array, um, and this is going to, so B is going to, um, so the morphism between A and B, let's
call this, uh, simulated physics, and then we'll call, and then we'll call the, uh, the morphism
from A to C as real physics, and then we will call C a four-dimensional, C is, it's kind
of funny, all right, C is a four-dimensional, like C, it's funny because I'm putting the letters
C for D together, and that references a 3D program, but that's not intentional, so C, C for D,
um, signal processing, and B is, um, B is also 4D signal processing, okay, so then we, um, so then
we, um, see, the transformation between B and D is, um, patterns, pattern, uh, let's see,
what's called, uh, pattern scaling, and, uh, with, uh, with rendered, rendered inner mappings,
so these are, um, functionally isomorphic, and then we have, uh, and then we have, uh, motor
outputs, motor or signal outputs, motor signal outputs, and then we, and then over here we
have pattern scaling with rendered inner mappings, so these are, um, functionally isomorphic,
uh, morphic, uh, so functionally isomorphic, uh, functionally isomorphic, uh, processes,
so, let's pause it.
So, when an oscillator kicks other oscillators, some of them become synchronized and some of
them become desynchronized, and it, so, intu-, like, your intuitive sense of what's going
to happen is just not going to lead you to the right answer, you're just seeing, like, chaos,
it's, like, uh, it's, it's hard to, um, imagine what's going to happen, because some stuff is
slowing down and some stuff is speeding up, and I guess it's kinda, kinda like the, what's
happening in the atmosphere right now, some, some parts of the earth are, are getting colder
and some, at times, and some are getting hotter, and it's confusing to people, and they don't,
like, we have all these increasingly chaotic climate events, and it looks like the climate
is desynchronized, uh, desynchronizing further, so we have more extreme heat and more extreme
cold, and it kinda looks like there's a desynchronization process happening in, in, in, in the climate,
um, in terms of extreme weather events, but it is, it might be, it, it, it, it, it, the thing
is, like, um, there could be something counterintuitive happening in that these different systems are
oscillating systems in the weather, and, um, eventually, the, uh, the wild, uh, divergences
and weather events will slow down, and they'll all be, and, and the weather will become, uh,
oscillating, uh, together. That's, that's like, that is provided that the, um, sources of new
energy to the atmosphere, uh, stopped. Um, otherwise, the, the perturbations, uh, the tribulations,
might continue indefinitely. You'd have to actually stop introducing new energy to the atmosphere
to, to, to, for it to, uh, eventually settle towards an equilibrium. Um, but simply adding
in new energy to the oscillators in Earth's climate is going to cause, um, lots of cascading, uh,
energy, uh, transformations on all the different weather systems that really, that are, they're,
I think they're driven by the influx of new energy. So we could say, I mean, I guess the argument
is that it is about, um, methane and carbon dioxide, but more generally speaking, those are, like,
those are, we, maybe could consider those as the, as the carriers of new energy into the,
the climate ecosystem. So it's, um, uh, it's a, uh, uh, think of them as, uh, spikes in an,
oscillating system, which is, which is kind of, it's kind of interesting, because it's kind
of like, well, by removing energy from the atmosphere, um, regardless of whether it's,
it's carbon or methane or, I mean, it might be, it might be that those are the only two options,
but, I mean, maybe there, maybe there's a third option for something that could be removed
from the atmosphere that would cause, um, the sort of, uh, the, the atmosphere to calm down.
So we wouldn't have high extremes and, and temperature extremes, and, uh, but, I mean,
so, like, okay, so imagine another way. So imagine, like, uh, the, the weather just weighs
more, and therefore it bounces harder, um, between, between extremes, uh, and, like,
I'm imagining, like, yeah, there's too much, just too much out there, but, like, yeah,
but, like, if we, if we could, if we could change the oscillations, uh, um, in the atmosphere,
I mean, it, it, it seems like maybe the, maybe we can argue that the oscillations are being
set by, set by the molecules and chemicals and gases, of the gas, of the methane gas,
and the, uh, carbon gas, that is creating, sort of, uh, heaviness in the air, uh, or an
oscillatory power, it's like, it's like, you're really, you're releasing many cyclones
with every, with every gas that, that gets released, because it, that consists of, you
know, first of all, atoms, right? Uh, atoms that are spinning, uh, in, uh, in a way that
causes, you know, increased collisions, I'm just trying to imagine, like, you know, aside
from capturing carbon, and aside from capturing methane, um, you know, like, so, like, let's
say all, let's say that all the human beings died in the, in the, in the planet's atmosphere
moved towards equilibrium, even if that, like, ultimate equilibrium isn't plausible, like,
let's say it moves towards equilibrium, and then, uh, so the total sum of all the temperatures
might be warm, but, like, I'm just like, yeah, it's like, yeah, all the fish in the sea are
gonna get wiped out from the heat, and the plants, and the land will burn, so the plants
can't, can't even grow. So what I'm trying to understand is, as I'm going back to the book sync,
and I'm trying to understand, did he say that, um, that oscillator was, like, a photocopier, or, like,
a, like, um, like, a magnifier, because that's what I, I think that's what I thought he said, and then,
and it's, like, the principle to how either, like, uh, a photocopier works, or how image
scaling works, and I'm, now I'm like, well, wait a second, I, I'm not sure that that's what he said,
and I'm like, oh, wait a second, well, how could scaling, then, you know, like, what exactly,
um, like, if my, like, if the basis of my idea isn't here, uh, in this book, then why does it work,
and what is the basis of my idea, then, if it's not this? How could it be a misunderstanding,
and still work? So, I'm, like, rereading chapter two and chapter three to see if I can figure out
what, uh, what the real story was. Um, like, the patterns in the game of life that grow over time,
um, oscillators, like, they absorb other oscillators, um, as the, uh, many oscillators absorb other oscillators
until, and when they, like, it's, it's a, it's a characteristic description, uh, or a viewpoint
on what happens when two oscillators, uh, um, become synchronized, it sort of, like, looks like they
become one, it looks like they've merged, they've merged together, and so, like, you can imagine,
like, you know, when patterns clump together in the game of life, or appear to, sorry, appear to club
together, um, that is sort of, like, a growing configuration that eventually stuff becomes really,
in the game of life, eventually stuff becomes really clumped together. Uh, well, I mean, I should say
that, that there's a lot of different possible outcomes in the game of life, but, but seeing
clumps emerge all over the place is, uh, is pretty typical, I guess. So, so, um, in the book Sink,
How Order Emerges from Chaos, what he says is if you, if you have, he says that basically a different,
so a bad point is a point that, um, if you start from a bad point, the whole system doesn't
reach oscillation, right? But he's saying the bad points have no area, because if you have
a bad point, what happens is, in one cycle, that bad point moves to, uh, moves from one
oscillator to another, and, um, and no, no absorption happens in that one, in that one point. And so,
in effect, basically, that point has to be ignored from the actual process of, of, of, um,
it's, it's like, it's like the actual set of what, of, of, uh, points that are absorbable
can't include that. So the actual set, like, excludes, so, so let's say that you had, um, three neurons,
right? See, see, uh, maybe let's take a, let's take a, let's say, uh, it's, it's, it's,
three plus one bad point, right? So the bad point moves around, so there's, there's four neurons,
and, or there's four oscillators, okay? Four oscillators, and they're each, uh, kicking the
other oscillators in turn. And the bad point is like, uh, is like a box that moves that never
gets absorbed. Whereas the other three, um, neurons in one interval of time are, have good
points, and when they, when they kick, uh, the other neurons that don't have bad points,
uh, the, the, the, um, uh, the point is being, uh, absorbed. And so, so the argument then
is like, well, basically you have a smaller area now for the oscillator. So the oscillator,
so the, so the bad point, uh, removes that the, is removed from, from the area. So the fourth
neuron is, which is not, which is, which is, you know, sometimes it contains a good point,
sometimes it contains a bad point, but it's like there are three good points, and so the
area of the oscillatory pattern is three good points. And the fourth point, the bad point,
that's just ignored. So, so, um, so that, that, I mean, I guess that implies that, um,
the three good points will reach, will reach equilibrium, with the, uh, with the bad point,
if there's just one of them, I guess. I don't know, but like, I am a little bit confused
by that, but like, yeah, so like, um, you know, it's weird because in the example of,
of A, like, A is always fixed zero, so that is kind of like a bad starting point, sort of,
right, zero voltage. But the others, but, but it doesn't affect the rest of the
oscillator from eventually, uh, coming into equilibrium. But it's, it's weird to say,
okay, now, well, wait a second, what if you have two bad points? So, that, that are,
you know, permanently, like, in bad, bad, um, uh, in polar, uh, oscillations that don't
get absorbed, right? It, it's, it's, it's weird because you're kind of, there is kind
of an argument that if, if, if an oscillator cannot, if, if an oscillator has a bad point
and the energy cannot be absorbed, um, you know, by that, by that oscillator for that interval,
then it's, um, you know, in each interval, it, it transfers on and it maintains the same
amount of, of energy as if, as if, um, as if it wasn't there. So what is there in terms
of, what is there are the, it's like, you have an area of, that is only represented by
the good points or, or the phase changes, phase changing areas. And so the phase changing
area is a subset of the larger possible set. If there, if, if the whole, if the whole set
of possible, uh, of potential areas for points was, was filled with good points, then you'd
have, um, an area of, you know, four points. And if there's a bad point in there, then you
have an area of three points and, and the bad point can't take up any of the area of, uh,
the synchronized, of synchronized oscillators for those, for those three points. And I guess
in, in theory, the other three points could, could eventually match the oscillation of the,
uh, of the theoretical bad point, I guess. That's, that's, that's the, that's the part
I don't know what I'm confused about. But what surprised me is now, um, that the, you
know, he's, okay, so what I want to understand is how the, um, how having a smaller set, uh,
a smaller area is actually like the enlarged function of the photocopier. That's what I
want to understand. So he's saying that the, the transfer, the, the operation from before
to after, uh, works like a larger function of the photocopier. The, the idea is that, um,
I don't understand why he's saying that all sets get expanded in area, but it's, but it's
like, it's like, um, okay, so the argument is that if you have, um, a terrible point that
leads to an oscillation not reaching equilibrium, um, then what happens is the, the, the, somehow
the oscillation by itself is like the enlarged function where every point in the oscillator,
um, becomes larger. So I have to understand this, but, but that would mean that the, the,
the bad point becomes larger. Um, and, uh, that its area becomes larger. And that is, it
seems like a paradox. Um, but the, so, so the argument is that, um, the inhibit, inhibited
set is like photocopier because it is enlarging the effect of, of a single neuron to several
neurons simultaneously. Um, that would be like taking a positive pixel, uh, positive light
pixel and capturing its negative light, um, as a difference. So while the neuron is faster,
the oscillating set becomes slower. Um, and, but therefore it becomes distinct, becomes distinct
distinct from the rest of the oscillator. So it becomes a distinct pattern that the rest
of the oscillator, um, encounters. But it's a magnified pattern. So you start off with a
small pattern and that one pattern, which is this, which is the single neuron firing, and
then it becomes a larger pattern because a single neuron causes a set of neurons to become
inhibited. Or, um, for one signal to be, uh, sort of like passing a charge to a lot of
others. And then for some of the others that it passes to, to fire randomly, the ones that
fired together, I'm sorry, the ones that were inhibited together, um, are, they're, well,
they're desynchronized from the ones that didn't, that didn't, uh, uh, inhibit together, I guess.
Their, their time has been, their, their, but here's, the other, the other interesting
thing is now, like, maybe, uh, the neurons in that set that were inhibited together, um,
are going to basically find out that the next time they fire, they're in sync with, they're
in temporal sync with, with, um, with new neurons. Right? So they're, so their temporal sync has
been shifted from being connected to, uh, some neurons now being connected to other neurons.
But in any case, I'm, like, I'm suggesting that there's a magnifying effect that's similar
to, uh, to, to the, or the, similar to the, uh, enlarging effect of a photocopier.
I mean, I think that the other, the other foot to drop is that we do see fractal patterns,
uh, patterns, uh, at small scales becoming fractal patterns at large scales.
Um, and so I think that there has to be a process for which, uh, small, small scale patterns
can become large scale patterns, but also how large scale patterns can, can, uh, can also,
uh, become small scale patterns again. So, there has to be a reverse process also, I think.
Um, or, or, um, right. So it's like, um, why isn't the StyleGAN used to render each frame
of a VR perspective? Given the head position or in orientation, head orientation, StyleGAN,
render the next frame. That's what I would like to, you just, you just, you just like, um,
um, at some point you could just talk to GP3 and, and, and program it to, to do VR.
So it's like, it, it predicts the camera angle and radius and what the camera would see from
that angle perspective and renders that to the display, which gives you a sort of, um,
liquid VR experience. But imagine that, um, we put this in a robot's head, right? So the robot is moving around,
and it's basically, like, where its eyes are. It's a combination.
It's the same, it's the same process to be occurring for the robot and human being on some level,
uh, in terms that, um, or, sorry, the robot and the VR headset on some level.
And that's the VR headset and the robot are both going to basically be using StyleGAN to combine.
It's, it's, it's really, it's not just the, um, the head position and the orientation,
but it's also the incoming bits from the head position and orientation.
So your expectation of what you would see when you turn to the right,
your, your, your, your micro expectations and your visual cortex,
that's going to help, um, should help in the rendering process for, um,
for, uh, combining your vision with your head movements, with your head orientation,
and your head's position, so that you're, so that you, all, all three of these things
are, are helping your brain to complete the picture, uh, to your right or to your left,
when you look over to your left, of what you're seeing.
And, um, you know, I, so I asked John Carmack,
why isn't the StyleGAN being used to render each frame of a VR perspective,
given the head position orientation?
StyleGAN render the next frame.
So John Carmack responded on Twitter.
He said, uh, there is an emerging field of, of neural rendering,
but it is very resource intensive and it's not close to being commercially deployed.
And, um, and, and that's a great, that's a great response.
Um, I think about the fact that, um, the AI, like there's a huge jump on,
in terms of how much AI processing can be done on edge devices.
A lot of the AI processing that you see with the StyleGAN demos,
these are done on massive, uh, multi-GPU systems in some instances,
or, or, or, and, and some of them on, you know, at least like a GPU,
that's like, um, you know, like an RTX 2080 or 3090, uh,
at least one really powerful GPU that's a lot more than what you're,
than what's in your phone, essentially.
Um, but you can see like, there's a huge, there's a huge leap in,
if you look at the, the Pixel 5 versus the Pixel 6,
there's a huge leap in, in, in the TPU processing core being added to, um, that phone.
It's gonna have much better voice recognition, um,
much more accurate voice recognition.
Uh, it, the AI, AI can, um, can be used for, um, uh, there was this, in 2020,
NVIDIA released, um, an article about how they had, they released the technology,
basically the deep learning, uh, with gener-, with, with GANs,
or, or generative adversarial networks.
Um, they, they, uh, the story was they can reduce the bandwidth required for sending video.
Um, that, and that includes sending video to a VR headset,
basically sending a frame to a VR headset.
And, and that, the bandwidth required is, is reduced by 90%
because you can send a lower resolution video
and then essentially upscale it with a neural network when it's received.
And so, um, you know, the trend in phones is, yeah, Google's like,
yeah, let me put, let's put a TPU inside the phone
and that's gonna help with voice recognition.
And when we, when, when we all have these, like,
tensor core processing units or TPUs in our VR headsets or VR glasses,
we're gonna have next-generation AI performance.
But that, so that, so yes, that improves voice recognition.
But it also improves hand tracking.
It improves, it improves position tracking.
It improves 3D semantic segmentation.
Um, so that the device can recognize, oh, this is a table, this is a chair.
And then it can transform the chair into, so that it has a different pattern now.
Um, and, but the same dimensions.
So you can, like, you can skin your chair while you're looking at it.
And it, it's a different chair.
But it still has the same dimensions, so you can still interact with it the same way.
It just looks, it's just, you know, its textures look different.
Textures and materials.
Textures and materials.
You know, and this is also gonna bump up the, the video resolution,
of what is on the device, I guess, um, similar to how, um, uh,
20, what is it called?
You know, like you know, like, like super, like super scaling or denoising
or real-time retracing.
those processes are all similar in the sense that the neural network is basically trained
on high resolution images so that when you feed it low resolution images it can remove
the noise or improve the image fidelity, it can upscale a low noisy resolution to a
higher res denoise image. And you may not get, it's not that you're going to get more details,
I think, it's that you might get some clarity. You might get some, it's like, I mean I guess
it's similar to the enlarge function on a photocopier, right? But it sort of like cleans
up the noise around the, you know, around the, it's sort of like the AI can infer some details
that can improve, you know, between, like interpolate. It's like, yeah, if you like, if you made
everything, if you made every pixel bigger in the array, but then you interpolated what, what is, what, or
you made every pixel bigger, but then you made every pixel smaller and you interpolated the
likely, um, connections between, uh, different pixels. Like if you could classify the image and
interpolate what must be there, if you could fill that in just a little bit, um, then perhaps, perhaps, uh, you
could produce an image of higher quality. But, but it's sort of, um, it's sort of doing that
by inferring things that are, that were not there in the original image. Um, so that's a bit tricky.
Um, but that's like, that's like, that's like, it's like if you had, um, if you saw a tail and you saw a cat,
but there was a pole in front of the tail and the cat, well, you might infer that the tail belongs to that cat.
And, um, and the machine, AI, we might, we might, we'll be able to teach it to, to also infer that the tail belongs to a cat.
But there is, at the very least, the remote chance that that tail belongs to another cat.
And there's some sort of optical illusion happening. So sometimes inferences, um, can be wrong.
Um, and so like, like, if an image is designed, um, in such a way that, that it could mislead a human being about the, the truth of events in that space,
it could also, um, mislead a computer about the, uh, truth of events in that space.
Um, so, uh, you know, the computer might fall to optical illusions, basically.
Um, how, however, um, you know, it's, it's like, that is sort of like the point of, or the, it's like the value of moving around the object and seeing it from different angles.
Um, because in essence, by having more angles on what's, on the object that's being observed, um, there's sort of, there's sort of like, um, you know, like tomographic construction of,
of, of a model that is robust enough to resist, um, you know, the model being, uh, the, the, the model, uh, you know, like over, like overfitting when you're trying to take, um, a neural network that doesn't have the sort of capacity to understand the complexity of the model that it's perceiving.
And it, and so it, uh, forms, starts forming bad conclusions about what's, what's there.
Right? Um, anyway, so there's, there's overfitting and, um, but the idea, but ideally, like, you know, there's, so then, you know, there's gradient descent, which, you know, maybe can help, um, sort of fix the overfitting problem.
Um, who could somehow, um, you know, correct, if, it, it, but, but I think that, you know, when you're, when you're dealing with 3D and when you have a neural network that has sort of like sufficiently high fidelity in terms of each node being able to, um, have, and have the ability to correct itself.
And so what I'm suggesting in, in, in, in the brain is that, um, you know, when a neuron fires to its, um, to its, uh, adjacent, to its, to its exoterminal, the exoterminal set, it inhibits a set of, of its exoterminal set.
Um, so, um, so, in, in, in some cases it's inhibiting effect, in some cases it's exciting other neurons, in some cases it's adding charge, in some cases it's adding, um,
it's, it's, it's, it's opening more potassium receptors which don't inhibit the following cell but have, but, but, but have the effect of changing the action potential shape of another cell so that the, um,
that the gate of the action potential opens more slowly so basically, like, the firing of one cell, um, is changing the phase, uh, the phase states of a large group of cells simultaneously.
Um, in terms of, you know, exciting, there's, there's a set of cells that get excited to go past threshold and may fire and there's a set of cells that they just get a bump towards, uh, reaching their threshold.
There's a set of cells that basically, um, um, they lose a bump because, uh, I mean, sorry, not, it's not that they lose a bump, it's that they, um, they're, um, so they're, like, if you open the, the calcium channels,
I mean, sorry, if you open the sodium channels, um, much faster than the potassium channels.
So, like, there's more, so if more calcium channels open and, and very few potassium channels are open at the same time, then that means the rate of potassium filling the sac,
because it's, it's the potassium that, that repolarizes the, the, the, um, the body of the neuron after the sodium depolarizes the body of the neuron by causing a separation of, of charges.
So, um, so, um, if fewer potassium channels are opened, then that means that the action potential event is going to take longer to close.
So, um, so the duration of it is going to be longer, or, and, um, and that will affect how many, um, vesicles get released.
So, a longer duration, uh, or, a longer duration, so I'm still trying to figure out if a longer duration of the action potential means a phasic burst.
I think it does. I think it does. Like, a longer duration of the action potential represents a high frequency phasic burst.
Uh, I think. I mean, at least it implies that the calcium channels opened up a lot faster than the potassium channels, because more were opened,
more, more sodium channels got opened, and fewer potassium channels. So, there's that. Yeah, it's hard to, yeah, it's hard to wrap my, my mind around the math there, but, so, but, but, but, you know,
I guess we're going to see the tensor processing unit, uh, which, which, um, is different from the graphics processing unit,
because it just sort of, like, the tensor processing unit focuses on matrix multiplications, which is, um, uh, which is, if you're trying, if you're trying, like, if each node,
node's output is a vector in a deep learning, uh, it's a vector in, in tensor space, uh, when you're doing deep learning, then, then, um,
it would help to have a, a tensor processing unit that's just focused on, um, uh, processing vectors, or processing, uh, and vectors is, you know, processing vectors is processing matrices, right?
So, um, so, um, if you just focus, you know, the entire GPU, TPU thing to focus, to specialize in doing matrix math, uh, and multiplying matrices, then you are at the point where you can, uh, do deep learning really faster.
So, um, so, I think that the logical trajectory is that our, um, all of our home devices, from our phones, to our AR glasses, to our VR headsets, to our tablets, and our computers,
they're going to have much more powerful TPUs in them in the future, because of the advantages for improving all of these, um, you know, technology experiences.
Like, um, um, I am using, uh, Google's, um, I'm, I'm going to get a, a Pixel 6 right away, because I, I, I make a lot of use out of, uh, Google Recorder, which is not, which is only on the Pixel 5.
And, um, unfortunately, the accuracy isn't, isn't that great.
I, I mean, compared to what, what, what I believe it could be.
I mean, there's, there are times when I'm, like, looking at the real-time transcript of, of myself, you know, speaking out loud.
And, um, I'm like, I, you know, it struggles with, you know, when I'm talking about neurophysics, neuroscience.
I'm talking about, you know, really, um, you know, biological concepts, uh, dendrites, synapses, you know, right now it seems to be doing really well.
I'm like, I'm like watching it.
Um, let's see, uh, Calmodulin, so, so then it, it's spelled Calmodulin like Cal-modular.
Let's see, let's see, calcium, potassium, uh, sodium, uh, okay, so, but in, in any case, it's, it seems to be doing well today.
I feel like it's been getting better all the time, and maybe it has been learning my voice, uh, but, um, but it would be nice, it, it would be nice to experience, like, uh, you know,
an even more perfected version, and I wonder if, like, like, even if I, like, play back some of the earlier conversations in which, like, oh yeah, it's like, this is obviously messing up, um, the voice tracking,
the voice tracking is obviously messing up, and, and it's guessing that I'm saying things that are different from what I'm actually saying.
And to, like, see it get it right the second time around by playing back the old recordings would, would just be really interesting.
I, I, I would love to see that.
So I, I really am excited about the Pixel 6, and for that reason, it's just having a much more powerful on-device, um, AI, just, is going to really open up what the device is capable, what phones are capable of.
Um, but, but, so, like, yeah, so, like, the idea that, you know, your Oculus Quest is basically going to have, like, a really powerful TPU,
and maybe your Oculus Quest 3, your Oculus Quest 4, I don't know, but it's going to be, like, at some point, you're going to, you know, there's, there's already, um, uh, in the, the, the chipset that's in it right now
is, is already designed to be really good at, at doing AI, you know, basically, it has a specialized chip in there already for, for that.
But, um, but we'd love to see advances.
I'd love to see next-generation chips that can do a lot more, um, give us a lot more precision across, um, multiple AI-driven features, you know, the hand-tracking.
Thank you.
Thank you.
