=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0105y Telepathy
First recorded: 2021-10-21T20:33:22.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/fb35dd02-3f4d-43ed-9915-826373b755ea
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So essentially the oscillation is scaling up a small pattern to become a large pattern.
And the scaling up process means that that small pattern now dominates a larger space, a larger area, and now it affects more regions of the brain.
That becomes what the brain is focused on. It becomes a focused pattern.
It's the physical manifestation of focusing is when a small pattern becomes a larger pattern in the attention schema of the brain.
When a pattern scales up from the neuron level to the neural circuit level to the cortical column oscillator to the default network.
Each time a pattern scales up so that it was represented at the neuron level, at the synaptic level, but now it's represented at the global level of the brain.
And you can see that these fractals, these fractal patterns do exist in the brain, where you have at the global level can predict what you might find at the, or which you, like, you can have correlations between correlated activity patterns at different scales in the brain.
And you can see that these fractals, that have been measured, which are all the different frequencies that have been measured with EEG, they've been measured with MRI.
They've been, there's also, they've been measured with MEG, or magnetic encephalogram.
And, uh, so, that's already three different, uh, frequency, uh, spectrums, right, spectrums, three different frequency spectrums, I guess.
So, so, so, well, I mean, so the electric and the magnetic are two frequency spectrums, literally, and then the, the, um, the MRI is, is tracking the blood flow.
So, um, which is, uh, in the blood flow is, is, is, uh, is, uh, a, another part of the, uh, you know, when neurons fire, blood, blood, uh, gets, uh, called blood flows where attention goes.
Uh, uh, blood flow, I'm sorry, the, the phrase is, uh, blood, blood, uh, when neurons use up energy, they, the blood has to bring the new, um, ATP, the new energy.
So blood, blood flows where it's needed.
Uh, it's, uh, you know, it's, it's, it's part of the supply, energy supply chain.
So, um, yeah, every time the neuron fires, it needs more blood, it needs more energy to replenish itself.
Uh, cause it's just, it's just spent, uh, a lot of energy and just, it just ejected its energy, its extra energy.
So, and the neuron resets itself, the, uh, the synapse, uh, brings in more ATP to the, uh, uh, the nucleus of the neuron.
Um, which is inside the soma.
And, uh, you know, I, I guess it, it, uh, it would make sense if, that the nucleus was somehow involved in the decision-making process for, um, whether, uh, a, a synapse was going to be pruned or grown.
Um, um, and that's, and, and, and so, I mean, the hypothesis is, uh, that I'm favoring is that the, the, um, the microtubules, um, might be one of the, one of the storage mechanisms for long-term memory.
Just one of them.
Um, and that would be for the mechanical wave scale.
So, like, the idea is, yeah, at the, well, I mean, so, the idea of the whole ear canal is that wave can change scale.
Right?
Wave can go from a large scale to a small scale.
It's the same, like, same sort of, uh, mechanism for, like, a cone, you know, or, like, a portable electronic speaker.
If you have, like, a, if you have, like, a, um, mega, sorry, megaphone, right?
That's, that's the principle of a megaphone.
It's got a shape that amplifies.
As a, a sound, a sound oscillates along the rings, it's, it's, uh, its shape becomes magnified.
As long as there's, um, and if you, yeah, if you increase the amplitude of the sound, it goes, it goes more widely.
So, you have, you amplify the sound, right?
It goes wider.
It's magnification.
And the reverse of amplification is, um, well, I don't know what the exact term is, but, but that's basically, it's, the sound is contracting.
It's, it's, it's reverse amplifying.
And, um, yeah, so, I, uh, yeah, but anyway, in any case, um, the, um, shrinking sound.
Um, so, I mean, I guess if a mechanical wave really is a fractal of, uh, uh, uh, basically a larger scale fractal of an electric wave, right?
Mechanical wave.
But there's just, there's just a wave fractal.
And, and the mechanical space is also an electromagnetic space.
Uh, so it's, like, a larger scale electromagnetic wave.
That was the idea.
But, but there are some other differences, right?
Like, um, a mechanical soliton has, there's a pressure element, right?
Because the, the pressure is from, you know, the, uh, other atoms being squeezed together.
And the pressure is, um, the combined, sort of, like, oscillatory effect.
Or, or, in, in, so if it's oscillating, if everything's oscillating together, then it should have a magnified pressure or density.
But if things are, if, if the oscillations are, if they're, if it's not oscillating together as a mass,
then it might have, um, as a single mass, then it might have much less density.
Yeah, so that's interesting.
It's like, you could de-densify something by changing its, by changing the, um, oscillation patterns of the molecule.
So if you disrupt the oscillations of, uh, of a set of molecules, you would, um, de-densify them.
Um, you know, you know, that would be like, um, but at the same time, if you, if you cause the, if you entrain,
if you could, if you could somehow entrain the, um, the, um, the molecule of the material to, um, to oscillate together,
then you would densify, um, and so another way to describe space is you, you have, um, space warps around
synchronized oscillations, and it expands, uh, with, uh, de-synchronized oscillations.
So, in, in that sense, um, de-synchronized oscillations are faster, they move faster, uh, or, no, no, no,
de-synchronized oscillations move, you know, it's not that they're moving faster, it's that, um, well, but yeah,
so, the idea is that, um, when the brain is focusing on something, it is selecting some small-scale, uh, patterns,
small-scale, small-scale, small-scale set of memories that are represented by synaptic configurations,
and it's magnifying them through oscillations, um, at multiple scales.
The, um, the focus, or oscillation, is, um, sort of, like, that is which internal representation
is the center of your focus, the one that's most magnifying, but, uh, but you can see that, like,
the cortical, at the cortical scale, because there's multiple tiers, at the cortical-clone scale,
there's going to be, like, um, a lot of other big, obvious things that you can pay attention to
the cortical scale, so it's not like your brain's trying to, it's not like the high-level scale of you
is always trying to, you know, basically sort through a box of Legos. The, the, there's a part of you
that is sorted through the box of Legos, and that's at the cortical-column scale, but at the highest scale,
what you're actually focused on is your, is, is just what's being presented to, uh, from the, the,
from the, the cortical-columns, which includes, um, that's, like, a meso-scale that includes
micro-scales inside it, so it's like, imagine, uh, each cortical-column is a, like, it's, it's a 4K screen,
right, and the 4K screen, uh, is, like, each line in that 4K screen, um, is, uh, is, uh, is
a row, uh, is, is, is a, is a row of, is, is a, is a layer, each line in the, so each column of, uh,
your cortical-column is a 4K screen, and each line, uh, is, uh, in, in that column, in that screen,
um, is a, uh, a layer in the, is a functional layer. I prefer, like, you know, there's, I
prefer the, from the Menta to have on the paper, and it says, basically, there's six, um, layers
of the neural cortex, but functionally speaking, it's, you know, like, 13 layers of the neural
cortex. So I, I, I, I subscribe to that idea that there's, like, 13 functional layers, potentially,
uh, in, in, you know, and, so maybe that is, maybe your screen is 13 layer, 13 functional layers
through this, through the six layers of, of the neural cortex in that cortical column.
Because the cortical column is a silo of cortical activity that has multiple, uh, that has multiple
layers. So there's, the, the layers go, like, horizontally, and the cortical columns are
vertically, are vertical. Okay. And the bottoms of the cortical columns are connected to, um,
they, they, they're connected to, uh, the bottoms of the cortical columns are connected to, uh, what's
it called? Um, so what's interesting is that some people might think that it could be incidental
for, for, for microtribials to, to be involved with memory, as long as the memory can be represented
by, um, synapses. But the, but, so why would they need to be stored in, uh, in a microtribial
as well? Um, and, and maybe, maybe, um, the depth of the possible combinations of synapses,
um, for creating unique patterns, um, for, sorry, for storing unique patterns all the time. That
has, has, um, has limits. Like, I mean, I don't know, but it's, maybe it's like a total number
of combinations, um, and its memories are not necessarily as clear anymore. Um, it's like,
if the thing that's representing memory is constantly being reprogrammed, like, what,
well, um, what if its past states are, in a sense, uh, at risk of being overwritten and
not being remembered as being distinct from newer states, right? So, the idea is that the
microtribial itself could be a value in terms of storing, um, long-term memories, lots more
long-term memories, than, um, lots, lots more long-term memory patterns than, than the synapse,
uh, might store. So, it's like each, it's like maybe each configuration of the synapse gets
backed up into the microtribial. And, it's interesting because if you think of, basically, the synaptic
pattern as, um, as the, uh, edges on a circular graph, when you think of the, um, the walls of
a cylinder, which is like a microtribial as a cylinder, think of, like, the walls of a cylinder
you can draw a circle from, from one point all around the, the, um, uh, cylinder to another point, like
in a, you know, you can stack circles, and then you make, if you stack circles, you make a cone, right?
Yeah, I mean, not a cone, well, you can make a cone, but, or you could make, um, cylinder. And, um, so,
it's interesting that, you know, it is a, um, cylinder in particular, because, you know, that means
that, if a cylinder, if a line in the cylinder, which is a circle, um, is, um, so, a circle,
a circle line in a cylinder, that, the, the sort of, like, the differences in which parts of that line,
um, are, um, activated could be, like, the, basically, like, the sparse density,
the graph, the sparse distributed representation graph, right? And so, the synapses, if you line
them all up, it's like, it's like, um, um, it's like, uh, the, the line in the sparse
distributed representation, right? Or the lines in the sparse distributed representation, but
in the momentum models. And, um, so some of them are active, and then, um, and then the idea
is, okay, so, if the state of this changes, uh, the microtubule over time changes the structure,
like, like, imagine that every time that the neuron file fires has a new pattern that's
learned by the microtubule. And so, you're, you're, um, you know, I don't know exactly how
many, uh, how much data the microtubule could store that way. And so, that would be something
definitely to explore further. So, I, so I think, yeah, so, maybe the microtubule really
could be useful in that sense for basically storing a backup of the states of, of the synaptic
arrangement. And, and that would be, that could potentially be informative computationally,
because you send, basically sending a sound into, um, microtubule that gets saved as a
memory. But, it may not just be saved as a memory. It may be, like, it may be ringing that
old memory to come out in a way that's modified by the new information. So, let's say the new
sound derives from microtubule that has all these old representations of old, um, of old,
synaptic configurations, and now it's got a new one. Well, now, maybe it reverberates
backwards, combining the old memory with the new memory together. And, um, and so, in that
sense, um, your long-term memory would be retrieved every time you got a new memory. And the new
memories would, it's the, it's the, it's like, your new memories would be co-created, co-creating
your old memory, the revival of your old memories. Because it's the coming together of both that
is going to define the information that you're, that you're, um, that's going to reach your conscious mind.
It's the combination of your incoming sensory data with the previous to learn sensory data that
becomes your, your, uh, your brain's phase state. And so, your new memories are co-creating, uh,
reality with your old memories. And then, and then, but then, but your old, as your old memories amass,
they're, um, I'm just imagining that they, um, that they become sort of, they're, so they're,
so they're, they're, in a sense, an attractor for, uh, an attractor part of the, uh, of the feedback loop.
But they, but they are going to, um, a binoculatory loop, right? It's, it's, um, those old memories
are going to be driving your behaviors. But there's no, but there is no, uh, sort of, um, like, the,
like, with, with the, the idea of adjacent, um, opportunity, why am I, I was forgetting what that was called,
but it was adjacent something, let's look it up. Every time you become aware of a new possible,
adjacent possible theory. Um, so every time you become aware of a new, of a new thing that you could do,
um, every time you get new information, the actual, um, complexity of what your, of what your, of the
complexity of what your past memories can be is altered by new information, which can result in a,
you know, in a structural change, so that, um, you know, so that, and, and that, and structural changes,
like, you know, are especially important when you can't figure out how to solve a problem in your life,
and it's such a big problem that you can't figure out how to solve it. Like, at that point, that's when
your, um, that's when your brain, uh, your brain reaches a threshold in trying, in trying to, um, deal with life,
and it really, it, it, it, your brain goes through a developmental stage. And I really liked how,
I really liked the, the, the way developmental stages were described in the book Thresholds of the Mind.
That was really cool. Um, that was by Bill Harris. And, um, so, but that is like where you're basically,
um, that's a tipping point where your brain is, the complexity of the patterns in your brain and how you
change your, uh, and how you think about the world. That, um, that can have sudden leads forward, like,
where you just are more capable. And an example of that is like someone who runs, um, you know, a major concert venue,
you know, major concert events like Madison, Madison Square Garden, right, where they, where, you know,
there's like the money is just like huge, the money that's involved is huge, and, and, uh, there's, you know,
famous people involved, and it's just big money, it's big money operations. And the complexity is enormous,
right? These are not easy things to do. Uh, if they, I mean, yeah, and so, you know, putting on a big show
and, and, and, uh, it involves lots of money is, is a highly coordinated activity, you wouldn't just say,
okay, well, let's just find some random high school kid and ask them if they can do it, right?
Because the capabilities of a random high school kid, you would expect, are going to be a lot less,
they're going to be a lot less capable of, of doing the big projects of that scale. Um, and, and so,
the argument here is kind of straightforward is that there is a, there are stages of development,
uh, that we go through throughout our lives where our ability to handle the problems of life, um,
will, will, um, increase depending on whether the amount of difficulty that we're facing is, um,
presenting a sufficient challenge or a challenge within a certain range.
And then, and then it's up to our brains to sort of, like, um, rise to that challenge by,
by, um, adding some complexity to their, to the operations.
So that's when you become, um, that's when you level up. That's when you become, uh,
when you become aware of other choices you could be making, and you begin to become aware of other ways you could be
applying yourself and focusing in your mind. And you begin to, um, to, to change, to change your decisions.
And to make, make decisions that you like more. And you make increasingly better decisions as you, um,
um, ideally, ideally, unless, unless, you know, in some cases people are, are hurt in ways that, um,
that lead to them making, uh, worse decisions because they're focused, because they become sort of, like,
uh, trapped in a negative focus so they can, they keep on making worse and worse decisions, right?
Um, but, but that is a negative spiral. But, but in general, like, if you're able to keep,
the idea is, like, you know, we want everyone to heal because people who are in negative spirals
are going to be hurting. They're hurting, and they're hurting other people. So they're hurting
themselves, and they're hurting other people. And every time they hurt other people, they're hurting
themselves even more, right? So it's, it's, it's, um, that's, that's because they're playing,
because they're playing back, you know, they're, they're getting more of, they're focusing
more on the stuff they don't like. And when they're focusing on the stuff they don't like,
they're just making it happen. They're just making it manifest in their lives. And that's
what they're focusing on. That's what they're also, that's what their oscillatory activity
is attracting to them, you know, in, in, in the same way that gravity works. If, if you're
creating a lot of signals, a lot of synchronized signals, uh, then, um, that's gonna warp space-time.
So, so once you have the brain, um, making patterns and remembering patterns, um, then you
can, you have, um, feature representations. And as we established, the patterns, um, get scaled
up into oscillation. And so we have magnifying patterns. So the brain can focus patterns. It
can, it can, and those patterns can, uh, now stimulate other patterns because they're affecting
more areas of the brain simultaneously. And so patterns are getting, uh, connected to other
patterns. And so now we have, um, thanks to oscillations, we have, um, synchronization activity
that is happening in the brain that, um, can't, that can be triggered thanks to oscillate,
thanks to interneurons or, um, but also just like, um, the result of, like it can be initialized
via, via, uh, interneurons, but isn't, but interneurons are not necessarily needed anymore
because the, the brain can maintain long distance synchronizations because the, um, the
pattern, the, the global pattern, the global, uh, because oscillation patterns of different,
at different scales, um, are not there, even if they're not in sync, they, um, in terms of
like at the same time, uh, they, uh, there might be like, um, a sort of like global orchestra
to, to the temporal sync. In fact, that's exactly what I'm saying is that there is a, that there
is a, um, a temporal orchestra to the, um, to the, to the, to the desynchronized oscillations.
And so, um, what looks like it's not in sync in a moment, in one moment of time is in four dimensions,
possibly still in sync. So it's like, as if, as if, um, the pattern was, uh, being etched through time,
as if the synchronization was traveling forward and forward in time, um, at the, in the, in, in,
in, in not just, um, um, in terms of space. And, um, so, but then it could, but then, so, but then, um,
um, so like, let's say that you have a small, um, oscillate, a small, uh, wave of activity
in one area of the brain. Um, you know, like, you know, like a neural circuit is, uh, of, of firing,
that consists of firing action potentials at the root of it. So that, so, so action potentials
are firing one after another in a sequence, and it's forming, uh, a circuit, uh, that is,
is, um, it's not, it's not that the individual, it's not that the same neurons are firing, but
that, in general, that bunch of neurons is firing in a, um, in, in an oscillation sequence
with other bunches of neurons. And, um, even if there's not necessarily, it doesn't have
to be, um, activity that is connecting them, because, could, because it could be that the
activity that connects them was, um, was once established by an, by a signal sent over an
internal neuron. But afterwards, it could be that they're just both receiving the same,
um, global signal. And so at some point, you know, even if you severed the interneuron that
connected those two, uh, regions together, uh, it could be that they could, that their patterns
could be both triggered by the same sort of, um, larger-scale oscillatory event. Like the
large-scale magnetic dipole event might trigger simultaneous smaller oscillations that don't have
a direct connection to each other. Um, and so, um, the brain would have, would have multiple
ways to continue to maintain, um, oscillations in, in separate areas of, of the brain, independent
of whether or not there continued to be a, um, an actual connection between those two areas.
Um, and so that, that might look like the brain is, um, sort of communicating wirelessly, but it's
like, as if two people remembered the same oscillation, right? And maybe that oscillation is learned
so well that, like, if you don't hear from someone that, that, um, that you were, that you
were unconsciously expecting to hear from at a certain interval, then you might intuit that something
is wrong with them. And so, and so then you find out the news that your intuition was right
because, because you just learned this interval for when, for how long they're gonna go before
they reach out again. I mean, it's just like this unconscious thing, and it's sort of like,
it may look like telepathy happened, but it, it could be that you've just, you've learned, um,
to, um, to, at some point when you had contact with this person, you both learned the same
oscillatory pattern in your clocks. You had some part of your brain, you had, you know,
saved a clock memory that, that, um, saved a memory in this temporal clock that associated
with this other person's pattern. And, um, and it could be that the, the, um, that oscillation
also, that oscillation also gets magnified globally. You know, if, if someone that you're in sync
with, um, has an injury or something, it's possible that, um, that there's a fractal sort
of like representation where that's like, where, where, where a novel event becomes like its own,
a novel event in society becomes its own, um, attractor. It becomes its own, like, neuron, neuron bursting.
And, um, so it's, it, it, it's, that causes a small group of people to become inhibited by the news, right?
But then, um, a larger group of people is, um, now going to become aware of your injury, right?
Because, um, or, or they're going to be, become aware of your, your good news.
And that, and that's because the pattern got magnified essentially by the, um, by the burst.
So, um, that burst activity, um, then becomes encoded by the people who are now, they're basically expecting
news from you, right?
The, the, the clocks have been aligned.
And, um, so you're starting the group oscillation, right?
And, um, yeah, so it, it remains to be seen, um, in terms of, um,
you know, so it's possible that if, if, let's say that the oscillation changes, uh, the global oscillation
that, um, that was a, basically that triggered, like, your connect, your, they triggered oscillatory,
an oscillatory memory that you have of the other person that was retrieved with a certain cadence.
And so that memory, like, occurs to you at a certain time, but if the global oscillation
has changed relative to that one oscillation, then the other oscillation might notice it.
So what I'm suggesting is, let's say you have two global oscillations and they're disconnected now.
Like, they became connected, so they're oscillating together, but they're, but they're physically separated.
And, um, let's say that one of those two oscillations, because, because here's the thing,
it's, it's the, the larger scale oscillation, uh, is reacting to the, to the smaller oscillation.
The smaller oscillations react to the larger oscillation.
They're in lockstep.
So if something happens to one of your remote oscillations, that's going to change the global oscillation
in such a way that the oscillation that was connected to that other oscillation is now, uh, going to notice it.
And it's going to seem like telepathy.
Right?
Because you're, because what you're really sensing is, is, is your oscillation with that person.
That's what you're really sensing.
And you're sensing that it's changed because the expectation of what the global signal feels like,
relative to that person, has changed.
And so you know, you'll know that something is wrong with the person that you're most in sync with,
if something happened to them.
You would know it because you're, because your oscillations are in sync with the global oscillation.
So the global oscillation helps keep track of that person and informs you.
Um, and so that's the sort of like, this is sort of like the interesting thing is that there is,
that there could be a sort of like, um, telepathic connection that isn't telepathy at all,
but it's just a matter of, yeah, it is kind of like, telepathy a little bit.
But, but, but it has to be established, um, through, um, through oscillatory synchronization.
Like, you have to contain the same oscillations as someone else in order to have that sort of like, uh, telepathic link with somebody.
But then that, but then that sort of like, that sort of like enables people to connect, uh, in a deeper way,
if they have the same oscillations, right, inside them.
And that could, that could, that, that explains like a lot of things.
Right?
Like, that, that like, you know, like, so it could be that like oscillators attract like oscillators.
Um, in terms of like how people, like who people are attracted to.
So, thank you.
So, picture.
