=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0109y Neurons Memories Oscillators
First recorded: 2021-10-21T17:32:56.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/a4e78ba2-ddf1-44d2-a76d-042a2d75f294
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Um, so, when I was thinking about what a mechanical soliton wave was, um, I, or, you know, I was thinking about, like, what's an acoustic wave? Or what's a, you know, one of the topics, subtopics, was what's a longitudinal acoustic wave?
And then I started thinking, well, are there, um, is there such a thing as, uh, a longitudinal, uh, electromagnetic, electric wave, or magnetic wave, or, um, or, I mean, is that a thing?
Is this, and, and, you know, there was, uh, in Maxwell's, uh, uh, uh, you know, he, Maxwell's, Maxwell's equations, um, he, you know, said that, you know, you basically, um, in, um, you know, in a void, in a void without, you know, air or, or water or anything, in a void without any, any materials, you, you know, you're not going to,
you, you know, he, he, like, you know, he was saying you're not going to have a, um, a soliton, you're not going to have a longitudinal wave, right?
Like, that sort of carries, um, a shape that can convey a pattern sequence, right?
Like a shape that changes over time.
Or, like, like a longitudinal pattern or a pattern runs perpendicular, uh, front to the axis of the, uh,
direction of the signal.
And, um, so the length of, of, um, the, uh, longitudinal pattern changes at each interval.
And so, like, a pattern that has both, uh, like, basically, uh, that, that allows patterns to have, like, you know,
two, you know, temporal and spatial, um, distinctions.
It's, it's, um, it's a pattern that has more bits than, than just the signal, right?
It's an information-containing pattern.
Um, but in, in, you know, in the human brain, um, uh, electric, it, it seems like the, um, the action potential,
like, the body of the action potential is the perfect sort of machine to create, um, a, a longitudinal electromagnetic wave
that, that creates a wave in both the electric and the magnetic domains, in the magnetic fields, uh, the electric and magnetic fields.
So, it creates a, uh, uh, it appears to create a longitudinal wave in both fields.
So, so that is, so if you imagine that your brain is, um, an electromagnetic, uh, field space,
a phase space, um, and, you know, the, you know, the, basically the, when, when charges build up in one area or another,
in a phase space, like, um, I mean, it's like, that, in, in the phase space, like the brain, right?
If charges, if, if charges build up inside a neuron, it's going, it's, it's, threshold is going to be crossed.
And those charges build up with, with ions, but, you know, who knows how, um, neurons might detect that phase space,
that electromagnetic field space.
I mean, in terms of how the electromagnetic field is interacting with, with ions, with sodium ions and potassium ions.
Um, and, um, yeah, so this, this, this interesting, but it's going, but it, but the, um, the field space is, like, really, um,
it's like, it's like your neural function is involving shifts in the field space.
It's, it's creating shifts in the field space.
It's, but if, if the, if the shield space is polarized in a, in a, in a, in a certain way, like, I mean, I imagine you could have,
that could, that could magnify an electromagnetic event, an electric and magnet, and a magnetic event.
Maybe, I, I, I'm just, I'm just, um, I don't know exactly.
And, and, and, and that could have, uh, uh, cascading, um, uh, uh, uh, patterns, that could cause cascading patterns of, of, of, of circuits, of neurons firing.
That, so it's like, it's like, um, you know, I'm just imagining that you might, that, that there's some sort of spontaneous firing in, in, inside you because of, that are triggered by massive electromagnetic events.
And, and so, you might feel something, you know, like, your heart feels like it's bursting with happiness, or sadness, or happiness.
It's bursting with some emotion, you know, one day.
Maybe you smoked a joint, or something, and it's bursting with happiness because you smoked a joint.
Right?
Uh, for whatever reason, um, and, and, like, well, what if there's, there, there's, there's a huge electromagnetic shift that's happening.
And maybe, maybe it comes from, from, uh, maybe it's created by the neurons in an oscillation.
Maybe, maybe the large oscillating, because, like, you know, your heart has a lot of neurons that are in oscillation 24-7.
Right?
They're just, they're just oscillating all the time.
Right?
And, um, it's like, it's a synchronous.
Like, they're all firing together, and that helps to move the, like, this giant muscle that's your heart.
And, um, so oscillations are more powerful.
Like, if you want to, if you want to have, you know, power that can move the motors of your limbs, right,
you're going to need sufficient power for that to move your arms and legs, right?
So, so, so the, um, so the neurons, when they oscillate together, they're, they're sending, uh, charge together.
And so, the brain can, um, uh, have groups of neurons become oscillators that, that in oscillators, um, as I'll point out in the book, can learn patterns.
And the, the patterns that they learn, like, they can, they can, uh, also replay those patterns.
And what drives, what drives the, uh, the preferences of, uh, that oscillator's preferences, um, that comes down, that comes down to, um, how, the, the, you know, how well, how good the results were.
Right?
So, it's like, um, your memories, your good memories become the drivers of your, of your actions.
Right?
Your, your good memories become the drivers of your actions.
You know, unless you, unless you, unless it's the bad memories that are the drivers of your actions.
But you're, the drive, the memories that you're focusing on, um, the things that occupy the time of your day are, are driving your, your actions.
So, it, so, it's like, if you are your memories, let's say you are your memories, right?
You're all of your life experiences combined.
You're all that, at least.
It's just an argument.
You can define yourself a different way if you want.
I'm just saying, for the sake of this argument, let's imagine you are all your memories.
And, at the same time, all your memory, memories, because they're, um, because they're complex oscillators.
Um, they are, um, basically, they are attractors for certain kinds of patterns.
Your memories are tuned in to receive certain kinds of patterns and to fire when you get those patterns.
And they're tuned to ignore other types of patterns.
And they're tuned because, uh, of the arrangement of their synapses.
What, which synapses are receiving signals, which are not.
Which synapses exist and which do not.
And, um, so, I, I was analyzing, basically, I mean, I, I, I think of the neuron as something that, uh, is a pattern detector at the dendritic level.
But it's something that also passes on, um, a, uh, a multivesicle signal that, that, that represents, like, a one, two, uh, three, or zero to its, um, downstream neighbors.
And so, you have, basically, um, the signal, um, the signal, the signal one, two, three, or zero represents the, um, the vesicle release.
Right, so, uh, in the synapses, you can have one, two, or three vesicles, or zero vesicles released.
And what happens is that's going, those, those, um, you know, the vesicles open up and they release neurotransmitters like dopamine or, or GABA or, or, um, acetylcholine.
And, um, and what happens is they travel across the synaptic cleft and they, they attach to the membrane on the other side.
And they, um, if you have more of them, it's thought, well, maybe, uh, more of the potassium receptors will be, um, engaged.
And the, the potassium will get out faster because there's more channels pumping in it.
So, if the speed of the potassium is faster, then that means that the action potential concludes faster.
Right, because the, because the, or, or the action potential could be inhibited.
Right, right, so if it's, so if it's, like, so if it's, like, so if it's, like, so if the action potential is the size of a three, right, then it's going to, um, transmit, uh, and so if the action potential results in, if the action potential, uh, is a, um, if the action potential by itself is a high phasic,
like, like, like, that, that's a three, that's, like, um, it's going to release three vesicles.
If it's a high, like, high beta.
If it's, uh, I mean, uh, high gamma.
If it's high gamma, that's, like, uh, the ultra-fast phasic, that's, like, it's, like, releasing, um, three vesicles at the same time.
If it's just, um, gamma, uh, then it's, um, it's, like, releasing, it could be, this is, like, it could be, it could be, like, releasing two gammas.
Okay.
Um, and, um, if it's, uh, if it's, like, I don't know, if it, if it, if it is, uh, like a one that's more of a tonic frequency, that could be, uh, I don't know, that could be, like, a, like, uh, an alpha or a theta, I don't, I don't know, or maybe even, like, um, a beta, right?
I, I don't know, I'm not sure.
Um, but, um, it, it doesn't, it doesn't have to be like that.
The whole point is that, like, um, let's forget about alpha, beta, and then gamma, and this is, this is, maybe, this is, like, a spurious correlation, actually, that I've, uh, made.
That might be wrong, um, but, yeah.
