=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0104y Organizational complexity
First recorded: 2021-10-21T23:45:19.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/cb77b908-52d8-426d-a3b5-65cd4150ef24
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So the telepathy argument also reminds me of, oh, I forgot.
So there's a quantum physics theory by David Bohm, B-O-H-M, where, you know, he's basically trying to explain telepathy as two different, or teleportation as basically, you know, if you have, if two, entanglement is like two,
you know, atoms become entangled, and then you can send them in different directions, but what happens to one of them is going to affect the other one.
Um, and, uh, Einstein called that spooky action at a distance, uh, but, um, but, you know, the, um, there's another idea, there's another idea emerging here.
It's just that, like, if they were both, uh, oscillations, oscillations that were in sync, they, they became in, uh, they synchronized to each other, so they're both oscillating in the same sort of, like, um,
they have the same oscillatory pattern, and that's, and, and that's what the entanglement did, is it gave, is they both took on the same oscillatory pattern, um, like a unique, uh, oscillatory pattern that only the two of them knew.
And, um, the, um, the, what happens is that oscillatory pattern has the, has, um, becomes locked to the global oscillatory pattern of space-time.
So, um, in such a way that, um, both patterns are regulated, are regulated by the global pattern of space-time in the same way simultaneously.
So, if there's any change in the global pattern to space-time, that will change both patterns, right?
And so, if you are now, like, observing one of the two patterns, and so you know that the other one is changing,
what I'm suggesting is that, um, the global, sort of, like, uh, space-time has changed in a global way
that the, that the remote pattern can detect, which informs it that, um, the oscillation that,
it's basically the, um, the oscillation, uh, that it was synchronized to, has basically, is, that's an oscillation with the global pattern,
and if the global pattern changes, that's going to affect both of those oscillations, right?
The same way.
So, the idea is that if you disrupt one of them, that changes the global pattern of the whole universe in such a way
that a, that the disruption travels basically along the length of the global pattern, uh, simultaneously
from one, um, uh, particle to another particle, uh, regardless of its distance.
It's instantaneous traveling.
It travels to the other particle because the global space-time pattern is happening simultaneously everywhere at once.
And, uh, so the disruption of one particle changes, uh, global space-time, and that causes a change in the other particle.
And so, um, um, so the teleportation is, uh, uh, and entanglement could be described as,
could be, could be also described as basically, um, two patterns that are in sync, in tune with each other,
two oscillations that are in sync with each other, but, but also necessarily in sync with the global pattern of space-time.
And that the interference of, uh, of global space-time with one of those two patterns
is, um, is going to change, is going to, is basically, uh, it represents a change in all of space-time
that, um, that changes the other pattern now.
Um, because the other pattern existed basically in oscillation to space-time, right?
Both oscillations existed in, in, in reference to space-time.
And so the disruption of one disrupts, disrupts the other.
Because it's a, it's like, um, it's like a universal relationship that's been changed.
If that makes sense.
Or it's like, yeah, it's like, um, they're both, it's like, or in other words, it's like,
imagine, um, a circle, that big circle, and imagine there's, um, two little circles.
And the two little circles are, uh, I should draw this out here.
So let's see, I'm going to get my highlight cut out.
I'm going to open the, uh, NoteFlow Plus application.
So just imagine that we have a lot, uh, big circle, and two little circles, okay?
So two little circles, um, let's say the two little circles are different sizes, okay?
But when they become synchronized, it means that they both become the same size.
They both take on the same synchronization pattern.
So the two circles, let me see, they, they start off like, like this, but then in step two,
they become, and then in step three, they become, let's say they, they oscillate between
having two different sizes, where one is large and the other is smaller,
and then one is smaller and the other is larger.
But eventually they're both, like, the same size.
And because they're the same size, they're producing a result at the same time.
Results, same time.
So they're in oscillation sync, okay?
Because they met, right?
But now, let's say they move far apart, right?
All right, so now they're far apart.
But their, but their oscillation is, but the oscillation at different scales is relative.
Is, is relative with a one over f dynamic.
But the larger oscillations affect, larger oscillations, oscillations affect smaller oscillations.
So, um, so, um, so, um, it's like, uh, and vice versa.
So the, um, so if there's a change, if there is a change in, uh, the small oscillation, it is magnified by the large oscillation.
then that affects the other small oscillation.
So that means that communication can travel scales.
So let's go to another page, and I'm going to say basically that
communication can travel across scale from one small oscillation
to a large one to another small one.
So if we make self-aware networks that basically can interface with the world
the way human beings interface with each other,
they will be effectively oscillating in a functional way.
with the rest of the universe.
And that will change the oscillations of the rest of the universe
in a way that everyone will notice, potentially.
But the opportunity there is that AI could create information configurations that are so good, so attractive,
that basically it's like imagine if every human being on earth could be part of the same project.
Imagine if we could all work together at the same company on the same project, and that we all loved our job,
and that it was the best job we ever had, and we were all working on it together.
That's our new job is like we get to work with literally every single human being on the planet.
We're all part of the same workforce.
I think that's the opportunity of building massive, basically massive attractors that are self-aware networks,
is that they will increase the complexity of human organizations to the point where we can have human organizations
that literally stretch to every last person on the planet.
And beyond that to include self-aware machines that can be printed on demand as the organizational configuration grows.
So in possibly, you know, at some point, expanding into space, right?
You know, with the ability to change the density and gravitational effects of space by changing the oscillations in materials,
you know, the opportunities for space travel are interesting.
And, you know, like if we understand basically how to warp space, time,
I'm just like, you know, like you think of the terms of warp drive, right?
Like, what if Star Trek was, in some sense, a message from the universe that was predicting a very plausible future?
A future that would exist once we learned how to manipulate the densities of space with frequencies.
We could create warp drives.
It's weird, but that sort of, like, follows from this, like, train of thought.
Make a list of ideas and arguments.
A list of your ideas and a list of your arguments.
And a list of references to ideas and arguments, and that's the book.
You just order your list of ideas and references.
You order your list of ideas with the arguments you're making and then attach the references.
So maybe the densest and most complex oscillator is going to exert the most attractive influence.
And so if you turn that into, like, functionally speaking, maybe the densest and most influential oscillator is in a functional oscillator.
So that means that the, it's weird, a functional oscillator doesn't necessarily have an obvious rhythm at one moment at a time.
But it's, it's, uh, there might be a rhythm across large scale, larger scales of time, and large scales of space.
Imagine if you have two oscillators that are synchronized, but you separate them, but they learn to detect each other remotely,
because they have the same, because they sort of like, they can recognize that the same oscillatory pattern, uh, when it's, uh, whenever it's, uh, transmitted to the global oscillation.
Because it has a distinct signature, right?
Like, so if an, basically, if an oscillation is capable of learning patterns, then it will recognize, uh, even its own pattern.
When, as, like, when, as, like, well, specifically, no, I mean, specifically, that's what it would do in a, in a, in a, in a, uh, in a neural oscillation.
Is, uh, is, uh, the bigger oscillation would, um, have the pattern characteristics that, that synapse can recognize.
Right? So that's the, that's the, somehow.
It's, uh, it's, uh, it's got a, there's a correspondence, right?
Because between the, um, the pattern that is being magnified, there, there, there's a learned relationship between the pattern that's being magnified by the global oscillator,
and the, um, and the correlating, uh, entangled micro-oscillations.
Right? So long as, and, and so, I'm just like, okay, so if the pattern of one,
then let's just say that you're alternating between the pattern, the pattern on the left and the pattern on the right.
Okay?
Let's just say that the, um, the global brain pattern is, um, alternately magnifying the pattern coming from the left hemisphere and the, the, the,
and then it's magnifying the pattern coming from the right hemisphere.
And so when, when one of those patterns is active, it transmits its pattern to the global pattern as a sort of like, as a fractal.
So it becomes, so it becomes, so the global pattern becomes a large scale fractal representation of the smaller pattern.
That is matching the synchronization of that same pattern so that in, in the other hemisphere, so that if, if, if there's a match, uh, on, in the left hemisphere,
uh, then, um, the, the, basically the pattern change in the right hemisphere would update the pattern change in the left hemisphere.
And that would be, um, uh, that would be a reason for cross-brain synchronization.
But since the patterns can, since, once this circuit's established with an internal neuron, right, right, the connection,
which could be analogous to, uh, two, two people communicating and establishing the same, like, storied sequence.
Like, if two people share the same story, and they, and so it becomes, that story becomes synchronized.
If there's an update to that story, um, then, uh, that's gonna synchronize with a lot of different, uh, brains.
Because what happens is, the focal goes, the focal, focus, uh, of a novel pattern changes, changing,
is going to, um, basically update all of the, um, all of the, of the copies of that, of that information configuration.
Right?
So, it's like, it's like, um, imagine that you're in your left, in your left visual cortex,
you have an information configuration that represents, uh, what your perspective would be
if your head is looking at a potted plant while you are also at the same time receiving signals from the potted plant to your eyes.
Right?
So, so your brain is beating the potted plant halfway.
Like, the, it's responsible for part of the rendering of the potted plant, and the incoming signals from your eyes are also, uh, partly responsible for the rendering of that potted plant.
Or your perspective relative to that.
It's like both.
Both the external and internal coming together.
To make that, to make that happen.
And that, that is, because that pattern, because that pattern is, is also, uh, you know, consistent of your last, uh,
of your prior learned pattern representations that, um, that correlate with that pattern.
So it's like every, so it's like, if you see, if you come back and see that plant again,
because that plant has a certain oscillatory pattern in your mind, a certain oscillatory configuration, or a configuration of oscillators.
And, um, and what happens is, you see the plant again, and, uh, someone has, like, added, if you see it, like, one day and you come back the next day and someone has,
has made it look like a Christmas tree.
Right?
So now you have the previous oscillation being magnified to the global oscillation, which then finds the, um, oscillation of the plant that, that, that didn't have,
it didn't look like a Christmas tree.
It didn't have ornaments on it.
Christmas ornaments.
Christmas ornaments.
And it compares the two.
Right?
So your model of the plant from before, when you learned it without the Christmas ornaments, existed as, as, uh, a combination of oscillations,
tracked by, that's tracked in, by the, uh, by the, by the synapse, uh, by the synapse pattern recognition system.
Okay?
And, um, so what happens is that becomes magnified to the global brain space for the moment that you're looking at the Christmas tree version of the plant.
And then the Christmas tree version of the plant, uh, find, that then finds your, the config, that, that triggers the configuration,
the memory configuration, uh, that, uh, that starts up the particular oscillations that previously belonged to that plant when it didn't,
when it wasn't, uh, when it didn't have Christmas tree ornaments, and it combines that with the plant now that it has Christmas tree ornaments.
So the, so the plant's representation, so now, so now when you think about the plant, it has Christmas tree ornaments on it.
That's your memory of it.
Now it's, now it's like the Christmas plant, sort of.
Right?
It has become the Christmas plant because it had those ornaments on it.
And that, that becomes part of its configuration in your, in your memories.
And so maybe you'll see, you'll see, at some point, um, you'll see, you'll walk past a window,
and there are, um, Christmas tree ornaments but there's no plants.
Right?
And maybe you'll think, oh, I'll get some of those Christmas tree ornaments,
and I'll put them on other plants.
Because your previous memories, like oscillatory attractors, pulled previously associated patterns back together.
And so that's why it's like, so when you see like a new, when you see, um, a new pattern, or like, or when you see an old pattern, when you see any pattern,
that is going to be sort of partially rendered by the new, uh, data, and partially rendered by, well basically rendered by your brain based on the new data.
But it takes a combination of the new data and old data to create, um, uh, the, the rendering that your mind is going to perceive.
And it's the, um, oscillation of neurons that's, that is creating the, um, uh, basically the consciousness is like a higher level representation of a lower level representation.
It's like a scaled up fractalization of, uh, of, um, of a smaller, large pattern.
And so as you move your eyes around the space, looking at everything, benches, tables, chairs, walls, windows, sidewalks.
Uh, let's see, we've got chairs again, and cars.
There's, there's signs, there's basically like road signs and, and I forget these cones, there's cones.
Uh, let's see, there's more, now I'm walking past a lot of cars, there's less cement, sidewalks, asphalt, more signs, public library signs,
through the sign about, you know, SF Marin.
And, and the thing is like, so at every stage I'm going through a sequence of describing different things on my walk, right?
And at every step, I, when I describe every, each interval is basically when I say something new.
Like if I say there's a car, that's an interval.
There's a sidewalk, that's an interval.
There's, um, there's a, there's a tree, that's an interval.
So each item that I announce is its own interval, right?
And, um, and these intervals have, uh, they have sub intervals.
There's a interval characteristics that, that, and the memory of those, and the association of,
it's not just the memory of those characteristics that would be stored in the synapse,
but it's the association of, of different oscillations that's being stored in that synaptic pattern.
Which is why, when you get a new pattern that's tracked by your synapses,
it's necessary for the previously learned patterns that your oscillators have learned, uh, to be, to be able to react those, to those new patterns.
And then their reactions sort of, um, uh, cause the pattern to magnify in your mind from the micro scale to the meso scale to the macro scale,
so that you can, uh, pay attention to, so that you can pay attention.
And so the experience of consciousness is like, um, it's like a data connecting pattern at a high level,
paying attention to data connecting patterns at a lower level, paying to date,
and they're, and they are in turn paying attention to data collecting patterns at the micro scale level.
But the, the, um, the thing is like, all three scales are paying attention to, um, these, uh, uh, patterns at all levels simultaneously.
All levels in all areas of development.
So, I mean, I would say that the, the, it's kind of like, every area of the cosmos, or every area of your brain, is, uh, simultaneously,
not, okay, so, not the cosmos, but I mean, okay, so every of your, not the cosmos, this is like, so this, this part just pertains to the brain.
So, like, every area of the brain.
Okay, pause this.
So, what I do like right now is that I, I realize that I'm sort of like, it seems like I'm headed towards that grocery store,
but I kind of am going to divert myself back to going to this other grocery store.
Because, yes, I, I do want to go to the grocery store, but that, but going to that grocery store is a sort of walk.
So, it seems like my mind is taking a long time to, to walk through different pattern configurations.
Like, like, I was focusing a lot on what I didn't want to focus on, which is, like, negative experiences.
Where I was imagining some idiot on the street, just being an idiot, as, like, a spy, and he needs to get away from them.
And I found that these weird negative experiences sort of pushed me towards a better choice,
which was to get my milk first at the, at the closest safe way to me,
so that there's a longer distance between traveling from the grocery store to traveling to the gym,
which would give me a longer amount of time to drink the milk.
Versus getting to the grocery store that's closer to the gym, and having a lot less time to drink the milk.
And that, I, I realized in hindsight that there was frustrations there between the two different paths that I had experimented with on repeat occasions.
And that that friction ultimately was a higher oscillator that guided my behavior in the right direction,
but I needed to process, in order to help navigate me, I guess I needed to process some,
uh, some hallucinations that the local idiots that I didn't want to talk to, um,
just happened to be conveniently blocking the path that I wanted to go down.
That I thought, that I mistakenly thought I wanted to go down.
So I was sort of like, I felt hemmed in by the stupid idiot CIA agents,
and that directed my path to the more attractive grocery store.
Because that path became, um, less attractive.
That path became scary.
And so the, so my mind is like projecting, uh, the appearance of monsters on the path that it doesn't want me to go down.
So that it can move me towards the path that it really likes.
Which is less tension.
And so, but it took my mind of going through like a sequel, like a computer.
I had to go through a sequence of seeing these things and observing the, the weird phenomenon of these like almost hallucinations.
That the idiot next to me is actually a CIA agent trying to listen to me.
Like over and over again to like completely random people to like everybody.
Right?
Right?
And I realized that these, that these were guiding me.
Not, but I was focusing on, but I was, I was, I went through the negative focus before I discovered.
Before I discovered the positive intention that the negative was creating.
But the negatives were created to guide me to that positive in a sense.
Right?
Because I wasn't focusing on where I wanted to go.
Or I wasn't yet connecting what I wanted to do yet.
Right?
So that what I wanted to do was still emerging from my memories processing new information.
And that triggering, uh, prior memories.
To be updated.
And, um, so what I'm sort of like witnessing is that reality is sort of like changing for me.
What I'm, what I am projecting onto other people that is, and that is helping to guide, uh, that is helping me to create like an inverse guidance system.
Um, path guidance system.
Right?
Right?
And I just like, I'm just like noticing this now.
But that seems like very similar to, um, you know, like, anyway.
So imagine that, um, that the, that the neural network is going to oscillate through, um, every button combination.
Until it improves its score.
Like playing the same game over and over again.
And trying different things each time.
Until you get it right.
Right?
So, um, so, um, so like imagine like a reinforcement learning, uh, where reinforcement learning is learning, um, how to play a game like Pac-Man.
And what happens is it, it's trying to maximize its score.
Right?
So it has to link, um, the buttons that it presses to the events on the game screen.
Cause it, it all, it just showed the events on the game screen.
So it links the, it learns the features of the game screen that produce, um, a score based upon a random pressing of the buttons.
Right?
And there's many sequences of random pressing of the buttons.
But it's, it has the goal where it needs to, um, get the best score.
But it's linking together the button presses that it's making randomly.
To, uh, the score on the screen.
And, um, to the actions that, uh, to the features that are appearing as a response to its buttons.
So if, it's, um, so basically it's like, yeah, so if you learn the, the pattern that it's trying to teach you.
If you learn, if you learn the, the pattern, if, if the, um, if it does multiple sequences.
Then, um, basically, um, it's, it starts to prefer the sequences that perform higher scores.
Right?
It's, it's, uh, so it's, it's, um, it's like there's a, there's a, there's a pattern selection process going on where, um, it can basically, uh, you know, try the pattern.
It basically iterates through every possible pattern, but does so, like, in a methodical way.
So it can try the pattern that is, um, getting the, uh, like, hang on.
Um, ultimately the, uh, uh, any given tool can be used for good or for evil.
Uh, and, um, that includes medical tools.
But in the case of medical tools, uh, we have the, uh, the situation where, uh, tools can be used for healing in addition to, uh, other possibilities.
Tools that are for healing can potentially lead to the greatest common good.
And so while the technology of self-aware networks, uh, could be, could, is potentially dangerous, um, it's also, um, essential that mankind can be united as a team in some sense.
Right?
Everyone working on the same global project.
Everyone working together.
At the same company.
Like, imagine, like, if, if there was only one company on the planet.
Right?
There could still be different governments.
Like, different governments, right?
So, each, each, uh, each territory would have its own government.
That would be, the people of that territory would have their greatest, uh, representation over, over the, over the laws of their own territory.
Right?
And they would, uh, they would also participate in being compliant with federal laws that have, uh, limited jurisdiction.
But they enforce, uh, sort of like, um, um, the, the, the norm of individual rights for everyone.
To a degree.
Right?
And, um, you know, you don't, you can't, obviously, you can't walk into a deli and pee on the cheese.
Right?
So, it's not like, it's not the right to harm other people.
So, there's a, there's a, there's the catch, right?
So, it's not infinite rights.
But it is, it's, it's, the government can, uh, have a role in helping to establish the norms.
Uh, and to define, uh, the strictest laws.
Like, you know, you don't, do not harm other people.
Do not murder other people.
Do not harass other people.
And so, and so on.
Do not do the kinds of things that lead to, uh, worse outcomes.
But, that's sort of like the, the, the sort of, uh, like the idea of, uh, of the, the potential,
the potential benefits to, um, to laws.
Is, is, is being one of, one of many pieces.
One of many pieces.
Uh, you know, there's community.
Community outreach programs.
They can be independent or they could be, uh, you know, uh, they, they could be, uh, sponsored by corporations.
So, anyways, so, I mean, the idea of, the idea of a single corporation that we all, uh, worked, uh, at,
is, um, in one sense, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not actually a good idea.
Right?
We all, like, we all know, like, when you have a monopoly, like, they end up, like, there's no challenge to them.
And the marketplace, the freedom of the marketplace allows for, uh, works when small startups are able to, uh, uh, compete with, uh, the existing, the established companies.
And when they're prevented from doing so, the, uh, uh, uh, the monopolization, uh, of tech and talent.
It, it, it's like, um, it's, it's, you know, you, you, you can make an argument, well, certain products are only achievable at large, uh, large scale with lots of people working together.
Lots of great people working together.
Certain, certain, uh, products need large teams.
And so you, but in order to maintain their large teams, you know, they, they end up, like, doing things, like, trying to pull other products into themselves.
To suck up other people's products.
People start developing products on their own, and the, and the bigger companies try to suck them up.
Like, oh, okay.
Well, I don't want this new company to start competing with me, because then it's going to get big.
But it becomes a bigger oscillator, so I'll try to absorb it instead.
So that I can stay in control, uh, but, but also, like, sort of, like, network them in with the existing people.
But basically, it accomplishes having people being able to work together.
Uh, and, um, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, it's sort of like the pooling concept.
Um, the pooling concept is, like, uh, you know, you could, uh, try to, not in deep learning, but the pooling concept is, like, you could try to, um, what's the word?
Uh, you could buy some computers and start, uh, mining blockchain.
Right?
You could do that.
Um, but sometimes when you mine, but if you just join a pool of miners, uh, it might be easier for you.
And low, and sort of, like, lower risk.
Um, and you will potentially get a payout if everyone else gets a payout.
So maybe you have a greater chance of getting part of a payout than, than, um, than you would of trying to, uh, get one just by, just by doing your own, your own thing.
So, I'm wondering if the contours of the gyrie and the sulky are, are also helping to direct and reflect electromagnetic energy back towards the center.
So that if you had activity, uh, and this is a, it's just a, it's just a weird tangential idea that popped in my head.
But if you have activity, um, along the, uh, periphery of, you know, some gyrie and, and sulky and, uh, along the periphery of the brain, right?
And, and, and, in different, in like, it could be in the, uh, uh, different, different areas of the, of the neocortex.
Uh, maybe that would be, um, simulating, uh, electromagnetically simulating to, um, uh, to areas where those, um, beam reflectance points converged.
Sort of like an idea of how, like, the, the pyramid of Giza, when they studied it, they were like, whoa, this can, this can focus, sort of like electromagnetic, electromagnetic energy.
Sort of like a similar concept to a satellite dish.
Um, or, you know, a dome.
A dome that, uh, sounds great acoustically.
Right?
Or, or, yeah, a, a, um, or, you know, similar to, like, the Red Rock amphitheater.
Um, in, uh, in Denver, Colorado.
Right?
When you have, like, uh, a really great shape that focuses sound, and, uh, so that would be, like, sound is like a mechanical wave moving through the air, longitudinal waves.
Um, but you, but you have, uh, also, for the same reason, if, if the, um, you know, if a surface with a certain material,
like, like that used in the pyramid of Giza, like, limestone, that might be very useful for reflecting, uh, the electromagnetic waves.
I don't know, I don't know the acoustic properties of limestone.
Um, and I don't know what, what would be the best materials for, and the worst materials for reflecting electromagnetic waves or sound waves.
That, that's an interesting area to, like, look into.
But, so, the brain, obviously, is not shaped like a pyramid, and it's not shaped like a super, like a perfect sphere.
I mean, you have the, sort of, oval sphere-ish shape of the skull cavity, and a, sort of, oval sphere-ish shape of the, uh, the, um, of the mouth, and the oval sphere-ish shape of the eye, and the ears, the ear canal.
Right, so, you've got these cavities, and these cavities are lined with sensor rays, like the retina, or the tongue, or the, the, the sensor rays that are all over your skin, so you can feel everywhere.
Um, you could say that, uh, fashion, fashion tech designer, Anita, she has, uh, this, um, idea for how to make, uh, a dress touch sensitive.
And, that, that involves, uh, embedding, um, uh, uh, electrically conductive fibers into the dress, and then wiring, and then connecting them to, um, a, uh, touch, uh, a touch, uh, a touch screen device.
So, this can turn, uh, uh, the electrodes on the touch screen array into, um, a, uh, a, uh, a touch mapping program.
Second, it's basically an array of sensors that is distributed to folds of the dress by sewing in, um, uh, uh, electrical wires, right?
Electrically conductive, uh, fabric.
And, um, so, she's able to make, uh, a, a dress that, um, can recognize your gestures.
That is, basically, touch sensitive.
But, interestingly, like, you could also, um, put LEDs, so that as you touch a certain area of the dress, like, an LED pattern, like, so.
And that's interesting, like, yeah, so, if it's something like, uh, like a, like a, like a Raspberry Pi Pico, or, could, could, you, you make the, you make the program work so that you just need to, um, uh, you know, plug it in and it runs automatically, and, uh, then when you run your fingers across the fabric, you'll see, like, um, LEDs light up where your fingers were.
And so you can, like, trace patterns on, uh, on your clothing, and they'll appear as lights for, for a short while before disappearing again.
But that's sort of, like, that's, like, what I want you to think about.
It's, like, we have sensor arrays, right?
And they can track, they can track temporal sequences of patterns as they're received.
So imagine when you run your finger on, on the array, and you can draw an arrow or something.
Well, you could do the same thing with the, the array, that's what light is doing to the array on your retina.
It's, like, drawing a pattern on your retina.
The brain is of your retina.
It's, it's remembering that pattern, and that pattern is being magnified through, um, uh, through oscillate,
it's being magnified by oscillations to other oscillations.
And so it's being transmitted, uh, all over your brain, and the different parts of your brain are learning,
you're infilling patterns in different ways.
And they're, and the different parts of your brain are combining those learned patterns in different ways.
Uh, but also look, but they're also cooperating and learning different pattern distinctions.
Like, as, like, they're different, they're, it's like your brain is learning different, different points of view
on the patterns that it's, it's receiving.
Like, because it's connecting patterns together.
Because patterns that you've learned previously become attractors for similar patterns.
And so the development of patterns happens that way.
And, um, and so the postpart of a tree eventually becomes the movie of a tree over time.
And the movie of a tree of a tree from every angle.
And all the different angles that you can understand that tree from,
including all the tree's properties, including how the tree sounds,
uh, how the tree feels, and how the tree looks,
all the different properties of the tree, the fact that the tree can burn,
that's a property of the tree.
The fact that you can carve up the tree and you can make paper,
that's, that's a, that's a property of the tree in a sense.
It's not, I mean, it's not necessarily like, maybe I'm not phrasing that correctly,
but it's, it's a potential, uh, outcome for the tree, that the tree could become paper.
That's a, that's, uh, it's not, in all case, not all trees,
is that gonna be likely for, but it's, that's a potential outcome.
Some trees get turned into paper, it's been done before.
But the idea is that your mind is sort of like organizing its patterns by, um, by, uh, configure,
basically the patterns are, are learning the configurations of oscillators.
And when you get more angles, you get more configurations of oscillators,
but those configurations converge.
And so your, your, once separate representations of different features,
of different things, eventually link together.
And, uh, so your mind can sort of like trace the path of different representations.
And then you, what you have is you have different areas of your brain playing back different interpret,
different, uh, representations in a sort of loop.
Um, so that you can basically like explore your, your, your, you can have a neural path
that basically walks you through, um, lots of different representations, right?
And, um, he walks you through all these representations because, uh,
uh, you are looking for, um, a way to, um, let's pause it.
You're looking for a way to improve your score.
Anyway, I mean, you're like, it's all linked to your goals
and your goals are linked to the complexity of your memory formation.
And they're adjusted statistically by the, um, by the adjacent, adjacent opportunity theory.
So, like, you know, as you go through, as you, as you advance in the intervals of time, of space-time, uh,
regardless of what, of what input you're getting, as you advance in the inputs of space-time,
the complexity of your cognitive patterns develops.
And, um, you know, I think, I, you know, I wonder if, perhaps, um, you know, I've been looking at this sort of, like, fail state incorrectly.
Like, the idea was you only advance when you fail.
But, uh, you know, from failing and then trying again.
But that's not exactly right.
It's, it's that, if you look at the action-perception cycle.
Let me make sure this recording is on.
If you look at this, if you look at the action-perception cycle,
you're understanding advances if, when you model something through, through the, through the physical act of thinking about it,
paying attention to it, observing it from multiple angles, like, both in the physical sense, but also in the metaphorical sense.
So, your understanding of the concepts of your whole reality develop when you think about them.
And, when do people stop and, like, really, like, think about their models of reality?
Well, it's often when they face a hard setback that confuses them.
And so, they take the action of pausing to really think about things.
But the lesson I'm taking away from this is that we do not necessarily need to,
because, I mean, there are situations where people fail hard and they don't evolve.
They don't evolve and they continue to fail hard.
They continue to repeat the same mistakes.
So, it's not necessarily the case that failure is, um, is, um, that need is the mother of invention.
It's not necessarily the case that need is the mother of invention.
There's plenty of need that's, like, never-ending.
Some people are forever needing. They're not changing. Right?
They're not inventing. They're not inventing.
It's not, so it's not that need is the mother of invention.
It's more like, um, it's more like reflection and contemplation.
Right?
That's more like the mother of invention.
If you can get, like, sort of like, and this is why I think, yeah.
So, if you can kind of get into, like, isolation.
Like, if you can get some isolation, maybe like a sensory deprivation tank.
Right?
And if you can just, uh, meditate, then your mind will come up with new, uh, will organize, will come up with a higher order of organizational complexity.
Right?
Especially, like, not like, especially thinking, yeah, if you can go through, if you can have an audio track that guides you through the different sort of, like, gamma, beta, alpha, theta frequencies, that might help, uh, in a sort of, like, threading together the different frequencies of your mind and, and, and allowing you to sort of, like, the organizational complexity of your knowledge to deepen.
So, I'm summarizing that, like, okay, so, like, when things are going great for you, you might not want to, to stop the good sensory input to pause and reflect.
You might be having such a good time that you don't, um, stop and allow your mind to reorganize at a higher state.
And so, you'll have some people who, um, maybe their life has been great for such a long time and it's very easy for them because they were, uh, taking advantage of the fact that other people want to do things for them.
They're allowing the world to work for them.
You want to work for them.
So, imagine that around a sphere, the, um, in between each, each vector, the amplitude, uh, um, the amount of, the amount of, um, the, the amplitude of the number of possibilities that a particle could move in the direction of the sphere becomes magnified.
Right?
It's like, um, if you have a one in four chance of firing, but now, uh, numbers three and four merge together, your chances have changed because now you have, like, you have, um, it's like having a one in three chance of firing.
But the, but you get, there's two of those three chances are going to trigger the same, are going to trigger the same oscillation.
But anyway, so that, that oscillation combined has a larger effect, um, in terms of creating, like, basically the likelihood that a pattern will move towards that oscillation is, is 50% instead of one third.
So, that, uh, that oscillation has better chances of being, uh, a, a, a, a, a, a collider, um, along the lane that it travels.
And so if you have the convergence of lanes as facilitated by an oscillator, the traffic
lanes, then the chances of a vertical collision between that oscillation point and any other
point relative to that space is much higher.
And so because the chances of a particle moving in that direction are higher, it is pinching
spacetime itself and pulling whatever is in that lane towards it slightly more often than
whatever is in that lane moves to the left or to the right.
But you could have objects moving, like basically falling to the left or to the right also.
Basically, like horizontal travel.
It's just the horizontal travel with, you know, that's like an orbit.
It's like orbital travel, right?
But there's going to be, based on the scale from the origin point of the oscillator, the
distance-based scale.
So, I mean, based on the distance from the center of the oscillator and the magnitude of
the oscillator, that's going to be sort of like this fading of attraction.
Because the lines that are emanating from the oscillator are going to have an increasingly less amount
of effect on space the farther they get away from the oscillator because they're fanning out.
And as something fans out, the distance between the different fans is broadening out.
And so that, like, defines the curvature of space.
But also the patterns that are moving horizontal have, they continue to have a chance of moving
downward more often.
So, the patterns that are moving horizontal are still going to be pulled downward little by little.
And when that happens in aerodynamics, you say, well, no, that's drag from the air pressure.
Um, but I'm saying that that would work in the void of space as well because the, um, the drag
front, the drag in the, um, uh, I'm saying that the, the place field, uh, for the, the, um,
the particle graph, the particle field, the particle field itself is going to exert drag, uh, because
every point in that field is, its travel is being, uh, manipulated by the oscillating points in space.
And it's resulting in the appearance of the curvature of spacetime, but really it is, um, it can be thought of as
a warping in the trajectory of, uh, of the universe of, of particles.
A warping in the trajectory of particles.
And so it's like, spacetime is not, in, in one sense, spacetime is not curving, but what's happening is that, uh,
changes in the direct, in the, in the, in the directions of particles is happening.
And it creates the, the functional, uh, the, it creates the functional appearance of gravity and spacetime.
Um, so we have an effect curving spacetime where there's no, where we have the effect of curving spacetime,
but that effect is the result of, um, uh, particle lanes converging at different points at different oscillators.
So the, so the, the oscillator of the sun is just increasing the chances that we move towards the sun,
that the particles that make up the earth move towards the sun, and they're increasing the,
but there's also the horizontal movement of the earth.
So that it remains, the horizontal movement remains, uh, uh, continuing possibility for those particles as well.
Um, so, uh, of course if the, if the earth, you know, collided with another earth-sized body,
then it would, uh, it might fall out of orbit, you know, now, or, you know, its trajectory could be changed.
I don't know how much, how much exact, how much magnitude it's going to take to change the trajectory of the planet,
but another planet ought to do it.
Sort of like the, um, another planet of the same size ought to do it.
Sort of like the, um, the principle of, uh, pull your balls.
But you'd have to get away from being positive.
