=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0116y The natural selection of spacetime Wave Oscillation
First recorded: 2021-10-18T21:39:21.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/b6f87a16-d979-415a-85c1-8abbc05ec511
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So is a neuron, is it resonating with other neurons in the electricity spectrum?
I mean, can we interpret the electromagnetic exchanges, specifically the electric ones?
Yes. And separately, later on, we'll consider the magnetic ones.
And we'll have to consider, I mean, so actually, what's interesting is like, the difference between electricity and magnetism.
Um, electricity's, I think it's, I think it's like, okay, so maybe it's an analogy of the spike, and the, uh, which is high frequency, low amplitude.
And maybe electromagnetism is like an analogy of the oscillation of the tonic firing pattern, which is like, uh, higher amplitude, but lower frequency.
So I'm interested to find that out.
But I also want to know if the, um, if the waveform action potential is, is characteristic, uh, of, um, an information-containing electrical pattern.
Such as, uh, such as a soliton wave, um, that would contain a wave shape that could convey a tone.
Right? Like a tone, like an, like, um, like an, like, um, like an, like, like the component of audio.
Right? So music, you, you could, music is, is a pattern played out in sonic waves.
Right? So in the brain we have the soliton transmission of three kinds of waves.
Vibrational or mechanical waves, magnetic waves, and electric waves.
And all three of those types of waves appear to be, um, um, trans, appear to be, um, soliton wave transmissions.
Right? So, or, or information-containing waves.
Um, so, they're information-containing because they have distinct, uh, distinct, uh, temporal-spatial frequency characteristics.
As if the, the, the, the four-dimensional temporal-spatial frequency, um, is being transmitted.
That is basically, um, acknowledged by, then, by, um, dendritic, uh, functions.
So I want to combine, combine, um, like, imagine a neuron that is basically a, a combined, uh, uh, has, that's basically every, like, the neuron is a sensor with a memory with a transmitter.
And it's sensing, remembering, and transmitting three, three different modalities of waves simultaneously.
So there's, uh, an electric soliton wave, which is, um, which is, uh, generated by the action potential.
Like, all three events are generated by the action potential.
Um, if you notice that the shape of the synapse, uh, seems to have acoustic properties, right?
The bouton seems to have acoustic properties for transmitting and receiving signals, for sending waves across the, the junction gap through the fluids in between.
So, you have, um, but, you know, you have to send, but here's the thing, it's like the, so the electricity is gonna move a lot faster, potentially, than the other waves.
But the electricity also gets kind of slowed down by the fact that it has to go through the chemical process of, there's a chemical delay in transferring, um, the electrical solitons.
So what I'm proposing is that, so the mechanical solitons are gonna transmit a mesoscale pattern that basically sends the vibration, it, it, it, so at the synapse, it translates the, the, the, the resonation, the, the resonance of the neuron.
It transmits that as a, uh, uh, think of it as an, as, as similar to an acoustical wave pattern, but just defined by electromagnetism.
And it's like a, um, it's an acoustic, it's like, it's imagined as an acoustical wave pattern that can, uh, define any kind of data, like a sound, like a sound wave or, um, or light waves.
Um, and, uh, the same thing is like, okay, so then the action potential is defined by the shape of the dendrite, uh, but the shape of the dendrite includes which synapses are connected to which other neurons,
which synapses are active, and when, uh, those synapses fired, so that, like, that's sort of like, the event, the temporal and spatial event sequence of the branches of the synapses combined defines the shape of the electric, uh, soliton.
Um, and then that becomes, uh, so that then gets divided by the, the, the branches of the exit terminal, and, um, so that potentially becomes, like, uh, fractalized.
So what I'm saying is, like, imagine that you have this convergence, so you have, you have the electric signals converging into, uh, you, you have disparate, you, you have, basically the neuron makes an image, makes it, takes all these dendritic signals, and makes an image out of them, or a sound out of them,
by, um, by, um, by, um, by translating temporal spatial patterns into a single, uh, electrical wave that is, uh, that is, that is transmitted over the body of a single neuron,
and then, uh, what might happen is that the exit terminal, uh, when it, when it divides that, that, um,
that wave, it's basically making a lot of copies of that wave pattern, that temporal spatial wave pattern.
And each copy is, like, a little fractal mini copy.
So it's like, it's like, it, it, um, it's, um, it's demagnifying, or shrinking, a representation,
uh, a four-dimensional representational pattern, into, uh, from a big action potential into, um,
a, uh, something that is carried by a neurotransmitter, right?
I'm just, like, just, like, imagining how that could, could seem.
But at the very, at the very least, that, like, so the production of a specific electric waveform, um,
would at least allow a neuron to pass along that sort of analog waveform to the next neuron.
And, um, but, so, in terms of signal transmission, um, in terms of synapses, so, so there's the,
there's the, uh, mechanical waveform, and then, um, the magnetic, the, obviously, you know,
the magnetic fields, the electromagnetic fields, uh, is being, is, it's, the charges are being, uh,
uh, displaced, which is causing differences to happen.
It's causing differences to happen.
And that's another, that's another thing, is that, you know, basically, you know, I got really into,
like, um, Buddhist ideas, thanks to the Law of Attraction movement, the Law of Attraction movement.
I got into Buddhist ideas, and, and, uh, and also the Matrix film.
So the Matrix film, and the Law of Attraction movement, and I, that really, like, drew me into
studying, uh, the experiential side of, of beingness.
And, um, what, what, what, what I'm, what I think, you know, what I think, I love, I love
the, sort of, analogy, that, um, beyond the thinking mind, there's no distinction.
That the, the mind knows that every thought is essentially a distinction that divides
with, with, the, the whole, the holon, the indivisible holon of reality into parts.
Anytime there's, any thought that makes a distinction between light and dark,
or any kind of distinction between red and blue, between this thought and no thought,
between, between, yeah, between any thought and, and, and, uh, and any other thought.
Like, any kind of distinction at all, uh, or any kind of awareness at all, um, is a division
of, of, of, of, of space.
It's a division of, of, um, it's a distinction of, of, of space.
Space-time.
And that is a division of space-time.
Mechanically speaking.
Uh, there is a difference that is being noticed, because if no difference was noticed, then, um,
nothing would be noticed.
It would, it would, if there were no differences to notice, then there would be nothing, there
would be no awareness.
And so that idea is that at the root of it, the brain has to be able to, um, at the very
least, create distinctions.
And that, that's, that, that is why, um, basically, you know, people who argue that, you know,
resonance, the resonant theory of the mind.
The, the, the problem with the resonant theory of the mind, it's, it's not that, um, it's
like, okay, there are reson, there's, there are resonant, um, resonance is, is, uh, an
event that happens everywhere, in your mind.
But the problem with the resonance theory of the mind is it's imagining that, um, that
consciousness is, is sort of caused by, by synchronization or integration or integrated
synchronization.
It's like integrated synchronization theory, but it's all like, it's like, like, it's all
like this excitatory network that's just pulling things together and combining things.
It's, it's all, it's all convergence and, and, um, there's no, uh, it's sort of lacking the,
the, the, the, the polar, um, mechanism, which is, uh, you know, it's all convergence and
coherence and combination and integrated information.
I mean, it's like, there is, there is an important role for, um, for, uh, disintegrated theory
or decoherence or, uh, there, or, or, um, basically like, um, it, it's interesting that they picked
the word resonance, but, but you need a, you need, like, in order for information to have
a pattern that has to be distinctions in it, synchronization is, is merging and erasing
some distinctions.
The more synchronization that happens, the more awareness disappears, the more advantages,
uh, the more contextual relevance, the more, the more, um, uh, how did I get on this side?
Oops.
The more contextual relevance, relevance, uh, that has, um, it deletes your, it deletes, it,
it, it, the divisions, uh, inhibitions, uh,
Um, the, the negative help, helps to make, to add details to the patterns that you see so
that there is a growing awareness.
If you have, if you have a brain that is where synchronization is being constantly disrupted,
um, you have a brain, because you have, like, you have, um, it's, it's only by encoding the
synchronized pattern with disruptions, do you, do, is, does that, is that, uh, carrier of
synchronization, which can thought of, be thought of as the, um, as the container of a soliton
wave, the, uh, of an, or the container of information.
So, so, um, so yeah, so the, so a brain's, um, a brain produces, uh, like a global soliton
wave pattern, a four-dimensional global soliton wave pattern, that inside, and it produces this
inside a, uh, goddammit, dammit, I just, like, want, like, some space so I can fucking record
my book.
A mathematician, uh, who wrote Sink describes, uh, uh, basically, um, the entire human being
as a, um, fractal of oscillations, and it, it's, I've, for a long time, before I even
read this book, I've been thinking of, of space-time as, as a fractal of vortices, and I, you know,
or dissipative systems, like, like, like a galaxy looks like a vortex, a hurricane looks
like a vortex, an atom looks like a vortex, I didn't realize that, uh, vortexes, which
include, you know, human cells, human cells are vortexes inside vortexes, with vortexes
inside those vortexes, it's like a fractal of vortexes, um, but oscillation, but a vortex
is an oscillation, and an oscillation is a vortex, uh, in terms of, like, there is a repeating,
uh, cyclic pattern, there's a, there's a cycling pattern that has a temp, is a, uh, a temporal
resonance, or temporal oscillation, yeah, so a resonance is a decaying oscillator, right, instead
of a continuing oscillator, but the very, but, but the, but the oscillator itself is, is even,
even in resonation, it's, when it's, or when it's decaying, it is cycling through, um, the
same sort of fractal pattern, from the large scale when it peaks, to increasingly smaller
scales, that signal, it, uh, is shrinking in magnitude, shrinking in amplification, and frequency,
but maintaining its shape, until it, until it dissipates, and so, an oscillation can maintain
its shape until it dissipates, even if it, even if its frequency increases, and its amplitude
decreases, or its amplitude increases, and its frequency decreases, and I kind of think of,
like, yeah, so, um, if we could think of particles as, um, being space itself, like space being,
like, the large scale, uh, version of particles, but it exists as, but both particles in space exist
as, uh, frequencies, between, um, intervals, between the intervals of oscillators, either,
um, continuing, continuing, or resonating away, so, if you have a dissipative system, the, the,
the oscillation doesn't resonate away, it, it cycles, but yeah, I think of, you know, like,
space is something that is expanding and contracting, and that is the expansions and contractions,
um, you know, are creating oscillatory movements at the most fundamental scale, so yeah, so I think
as, as, as space is, like, as something that is, um, um, at the most fundamental scale, it's randomly,
um, expanding and contracting, creating awesome, creating the fundamental oscillations of space-time,
and so we, so we are, so right, I, right now, I am one with space-time, we all are, uh, in terms of,
like, uh, I am what space-time looks like at some point during its folding process, um, and it's a
folding process that has amazing organization, so I'm, I'm saying, like, it starts out in a, in a,
uh, at the most fundamental level in a, sort of, like, rent, like, um, the most, uh, at one end of,
at one end of the spectrum, it's, it's, uh, completely random, uh, it's, um, it's random, sort of,
like, like, um, you know, I, I'm, I'm talking about, like, uncertain, like, the uncertainty hypothesis,
right, you can only see the, the quantum, the, the, um, the particle jiggles because it can, it, it, it,
because you can either see its momentum or its position, but not both at the same time, so it has
to constantly alternate between states, it's, it's, it's, it's physically uncertain, uh, what it wants to be,
um, and the uncertainty principle applies to basically all of space-time creating micro-oscillations,
um, but then, uh, what happens is these, these oscillations serve as attractors to, um,
attractors that are, that are sort of, like, having random encounters with, um, with each other, and,
and so, but attractors, like, attractor is, is, um, and it's, like, an event that, that is going to
continue the oscillation, but, like, but they're, they're, but they're attractors in a different way,
they're, like, attracting other oscillators, they're attracting other particles, they're attracting
electrons, they have, um, and they're doing it, they're, the, the attraction is being caused,
uh, in a mechanical way, because the interaction of one oscillator with another is causing, um,
uh, reaction, like, uh, a reaction where it's, like, it's, so forces have collided in space,
and they bounce off each other, right, there's this reaction to space folding and then hitting itself,
so it bounces off itself with these folds, because they, because they have, like, they pull each other
together, because they're oscillators, and oscillators attract, and so everything in space
clumps together, and you get rocks, and you get gases, and you get stars, and you get every possible
atomic operation in a long enough timeline, uh, in which the universe is able to sort of follow the
physics, uh, the, basically a kind, a natural selection for physics, so there's, so, you know,
evolution is the natural selection of life, the path, the, the, the process of natural selection for
life, but there's also scientists who've shared a theory that there's a natural selection for, for
physics, and, um, that doesn't, that there's, there's, there's a lot of, it's, that's a good idea,
and there's a lot of easy examples, right, like, the fact that, um, most of the, most of the chemicals
that, that we have here on earth, including our own bodies, were made in stars, like, the universe
started out with, like, a lot of hydrogen and helium, but not much else, and so the universe went
through phases of physics-based natural selection, where, um, where events at the quantum scale,
uh, sort of became, uh, sort of, sort of, um, went from being the, so there was a transition from
the complexity of what was happening at the molecular scale, or at the atomic scale,
to the molecular scale, to the chemical scale, like, there's, there's transition phases in the
timeline, where the organization of, of oscillators into increasingly complex structures, up until,
um, you know, human life in the present moment, which is, the human life is still, like,
a continuation of the same natural selection of the cosmos itself, it's sort of like, it's, it's,
so I'm, like, yeah, so I'm thinking, yes, in a way, space-time emerged everywhere at once
simultaneously, but there's nothing from, there's nothing that's, that is going to fundamentally
prevent, um, the continual, sort of, um, natural selection of space-time.
Um, the natural selection of space-time should be the chapter.
