=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0129y Neocortex Brain Oscillators
First recorded: 2021-10-15T03:38:40.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/6dbe4fb3-7ab7-4356-8fbb-0c461d6139d6
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
I think that the enormous size and shape of the human neocortex is what gives rise to speech, to complex human speech.
Um, and that's the main, I think that's the main difference, uh, is the complexity of human speech, which reflects, um, a higher resolution of, of, um, reality rendering.
Right, so a dog has a neocortex and is capable of some making sounds and understanding words.
Like, some dogs have understood 150 words I've, uh, I've heard.
And, um, you know, they don't have the, uh, the question is, like, if you could give vocal cords to, to a dog, it doesn't have the speech areas that, um, that are associated with human speech.
But, um, I think that even if you could somehow create, like, an external brain to just sort of create speech areas for the dog, like, what would that involve exactly?
I mean, I mean, so I think that basically, um, the size and scale and organizational properties of the neocortex are sort of, um, able to, you know, establish patterns from, essentially, uh, four-dimensional fields.
Uh, point fields.
Uh, actually, um, sorry, phase fields.
And, um, the, uh, the, uh, networking convergence points along with the oscillatory convergences, the power band convergences, um, and, uh, other electromagnetic and chemical, magnetic and electrical convergences and vibrational convergences.
And, like, even the idea that, you know, what, the, uh, you know, maybe some acoustic, some mechanical and some electro, uh, magnetic, uh, waves might reverberate off of the, uh, the skull back towards the center areas of the brain.
And that, uh, that by itself could be a sort of, uh, attractor, um, that, uh, binds together information.
As long as all we have to do to verify whether that is, is not only happening but significant is to verify, I mean, to verify whether or not that's significant.
If it's happening, um, is to verify that, that, um, it's able to adjust or update or interfere or push or physically interact with the, um, or influence the activity of the magnetic or electric dipole in such a way that we, um,
can, um, can track and isolate the, that is a pattern that's actually influencing that and, first of all, and second of all, that we can show that neuronal assemblies or individual neurons actually have a method,
neural assemblies and individual neurons have a method of, uh, of detecting the phase changes caused by the, uh, uh, uh, large-scale, uh, electromagnetic differential events.
Um, but, but, it, but in essence, like, ideally, the whole, whole brain is able to track, um,
to, as a single system, to, as a single system, coordinately track all of the temporal spatial events, uh, in all areas of the brain.
And I would, I would think that basically, like, um, you know, we're gonna have areas of the brain that, like, like, when I think of, when I think I'm feeling feelings from the lower brain, from the brainstem,
I can picture, I have this mental map of where those feelings are coming from, and they're characteristic, characteristically different in terms of their phase representation.
It's more of, like, a, uh, a big, thick, slow, phase pattern coming, phase, series, sequence of phase patterns coming from different areas of the old brain.
And I sort of, like, am just, I think, playing with internal representations, trying to figure out what, trying to figure out if, if the sort of, like, vagueness of certain kinds of feelings,
sort of, like, lack of precision in spatial details.
Like, a feeling doesn't look like a chair.
It's got this sort of, like, for me, like, something that's, like, a deeper emotion has a broader, uh, lower frequency, higher amplitude feeling to it.
Maybe it's, maybe it's a feeling of an oscillator making it, a large oscillator making it shift.
Because not only can small oscillators make shifts, but large oscillators can make, uh, phase shifts that could potentially be felt by other large oscillators.
So that's interesting to think that oscillators are not only detecting minute, um, shifts.
It could be, I mean, I guess, I guess it's possible, it's not super clear to me yet how, but I guess it's possible that oscillators could be, uh, perceptive not only of axon, of, of the main, um, action potential event,
but also, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, backfiring action potentials, um, dendritic, uh, originating action potentials,
or dendrite originating action potentials, um, I don't know, maybe synaptic firing events, threshold events,
maybe the oscillator can actually sort of absorb and learn that.
And, so, and, but the levels of detail for representation of patterns on different scales ought to be, uh,
ought to have some sort of representation, I think.
Maybe it's something that's a lot more, like, um, of a, of a ghostly feeling, like a really, really, uh, subtle texture, like dust, right?
Like, imagine that when you are sensing the, uh, the synapses firing on your dendrites, it's like feeling pixie dust.
Like being sprinkled on your dendrites, it's like being, it's like feeling, um, uh, smoke.
It's like feeling something super light and airy, um, because it's a lot of, like, really tiny, spotty patterns with, um,
um, that could potentially, uh, be interpreted as having a distance between each of those patterns.
Not necessarily.
This distance is sort of like a, uh, a rendering, um, in terms of how the brain understands distances.
It's not that case that, um, um, cause patterns, patterns are, learned patterns are scale invariant and...
Who put the boxes...
Oh, those are yours, okay.
My one.
Great.
