=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0122y Quantum Scale Birds Column
First recorded: 2021-10-17T00:10:01.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/2549d6e0-a30d-42fd-8a42-ae9808eae81d
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So, I can use the sort of like the intro quote from the quantum physicist to then sort of like be a segue into explaining why I think orc-or is incorrect, why it could be incorrect.
But even if it's not incorrect, why it doesn't change the rest of this book.
The rest of this book is still going to be true regardless of whether orc-or is true or not true.
Orc-or wouldn't change, the addition of quantum computations would not change how the brain functions at the classical scale.
It might, it's possible, it's not impossible, that there could be some sort of signal received from a microtubule that could be the tipping point.
But I expect that the actual effect of signals from the microtubules will be too small to meaningfully contribute to a change in the voltage membrane that would cause an action potential.
I mean, it could be that there's some, you know, if you basically consider the brain as a fractal,
then the argument would be that what's happening at the thalamic level, at the cortical column level in the neocortex,
what's happening, that would be the mesoscale level,
what's happening in each cortical column and with each neuron.
So the cortical column itself is a mesoscale.
All the cortical columns in the thalamus is the macroscale.
And the individual neuron at the dendritic level is the microscale.
The dendrite to the DTMVR level is the microscale of what's happening.
And then in theory, there could be another, there could be a quantum scale fractal in the microtubule.
And so that, I mean, I'm, I mean, I guess, like, I mean, I guess it's possible.
But it wouldn't change what's happening in terms of like, if the same pattern is repeating fractally,
at least we have three different scales of potential pattern activity in the brain.
We have the thalamic scale, column scale.
Actually, you know, we've got four different scales.
So we've got the neural circuit, we have horizontal scale, horizontal neural circuit scale.
And then we have the sort of like atomic and dendritic scale.
Fractal oscillation system.
Fractal oscillation memory system.
With an action to perception.
Fractal action prediction system.
Action prediction system.
Fractal.
Fractal.
Isomorph.
Fractal.
Isomorph.
Fractal.
So in that, in that vein, maybe I'll do an IC.
Fractal oscillatory.
Yeah.
Yeah.
She's like three, she's caught up.
I will.
Fractal oscillatory.
Fractal oscillatory.
Fractal oscillatory action prediction memory system.
Fractal oscillatory action prediction memory system.
It tracks oscillations between actions and sensory inputs.
With this understanding, we can better create this better understanding of the neuronal
protocols that I first talked about in the Neural Lace podcast.
What is the protocol of...
If the brain is like a network, what is the networking protocol?
I asked that in the Neural Lace podcast, and if this is the networking protocol of the
brain that I'm describing here, then we should be able to use this to basically make
artificial eyes that can basically capture even more of the light spectrum.
We could make artificial nose implants that have a much bigger range of odors that can
capture things that human beings currently cannot smell.
And you could create a...
I mean, you could think of these as replacements for your existing nose and eyes and ears and
touch.
Like, you could replace an arm, give you a new prosthetic that can touch with a level
of detail and resolution that is, you know, takes advantage of what lizards have developed,
what geckos have developed.
You know, in terms of being able to sense very precise details.
And that means that, like, you know, like geckos that scale walls.
Like, they have to...
They have very sensitive tactile receptors on their hands because they need to grip surfaces
vertically and upside down.
So it is very much a world with a lot of tactile sensations for the brain of a gecko.
I don't know, you know, actually, if they're...
Their brains are so small, it's kind of weird.
The idea that their touch might be higher resolution than our touch, I guess, could make
sense if touch was really, like, the dominant sort of, like, activity in the brain, maybe?
Um...
So, yeah.
So the hypothesis, like...
So, but then...
Okay.
So the question is, what about birds?
Right?
Because birds have incredibly sharp vision.
Um...
And...
I don't know if...
I mean...
It's hard to say if bird vision is sharper than human vision.
Uh...
Like, why it's sharper than human vision?
If the bird's brain is a lot smaller.
I mean, maybe the bird's brain is...
Um...
Has a better organization for scaling, uh...
Images between large and small.
And so, um...
It's, uh...
It's...
If you're flying around in space, that means that everything around you is, relatively
speaking, changing its scale in a much faster and potentially more frightening way.
If you...
Um...
If you're flying, and you suddenly fall asleep, and you hit the ground really hard, you could
die.
Right?
But flying also, like, you know, sometimes you could fly straight into a pole.
And birds do this.
We've seen this happen.
You see a bird fly straight into something.
Like, they fly greatly...
One of the...
One example is...
They think that, um...
That windows are sometimes, uh...
Passageways.
So, birds sometimes fly straight into windows because they don't realize that glass is there.
So, that actually could be an example that the resolution of a bird's vision, uh...
Uh...
Might be sort of driven by necessity.
So, because...
Because...
Uh...
Sight has such, um...
A greater importance for things that fly.
Um...
Have more...
Have more...
Connections.
And what I would expect, I guess, looking at a bird's neurology, if this...
What...
What I could expect is that maybe there's a greater amount of...
Connections in its, uh...
Visual cortex.
Uh...
Like, a much greater amount of connections.
And that, um...
There's also, like, a lot more activity, um...
In terms of, uh...
You know, um...
You know, when birds sleep.
In terms of them having, uh...
Dreams that are of a visual nature designed to basically, uh...
Continually reinforce the, um...
The learned connections that the bird's visual cortex has, uh...
Uh...
Over the...
Over...
Over time.
So that those connections don't decay.
So there's a...
Sort of, like, reinforcement of the connections during sleep.
Be it dreams.
And, um...
But...
But, yeah, that's the...
That's the big thing.
So...
A bird, especially, is going to need to have multiple scales of...
Of resolution, then.
Um...
So there should be, like...
You know...
From seeing...
There has to be, like...
You know, from the input...
To the...
To...
To...
Uh...
Neural circuits...
To...
To...
From the input to...
Um...
To, uh...
Level one circuits within a column.
To level two circuits within a column.
To level...
To the entire column being its own oscillator.
To the, um...
Networks above it.
Uh...
To the...
That connect into the thalamus.
And are oscillated by...
Oscillated, um...
Around the thalamus.
Right?
So that, um...
That the thalamus itself can act as, like...
The macro scale, uh...
Frame...
Of...
Representation.
Alright, that's about it.
Alright, that's about it.
