=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0139y TPJ and Pyramid of Giza Dyson Sphere Brain Pyramid
First recorded: 2021-10-11T07:43:38.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/d31605a5-93c6-4547-b87f-6e8804ec6d4b
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So what is the gyrate and the sulky? Like, okay, so here's my question. Is, um, are the pyramidal cells closest to the surface of the skull? Like, is the fifth layer or sixth layer closest to the skull? In the folds of the, is it in the folds of the gyrate and the sulky?
Um, underneath them, right? Yeah. And, so that, I mean, that is, yeah, the neocortex is folded in on itself, right? That's what I'm remembering. So it's like a napkin, but if you stretch it out, it's like a size of a large inner napkin, but instead it's squeezed in on itself.
And the shape of it is interesting. And the shape of it is interesting. But it's like, yeah, like the, I think the sixth layer is the one that's closest to, um, the scalp, to the skull.
Closest to the skull. And, um, that's the layer where the pyramidal cells come out with their 200,000 connections.
And they, um, and the long interneurons that join together, regions of the brain. It all happens at the, the, the, the massive, um, connections in the neocortex happen close to the surface of the skull.
It's almost like, um, yeah, it's weird. It's like, so it's like, okay, so think about how that's similar to the, um, the retina that sort of like lines the interior, uh, of the, um, the back of the, uh, of the eyeball.
Right? Right? Because it's like you have basically the sort of webbing that's lining the interior of the skull in the brain.
Right? Except it's folded. And so I saw the article about, you know, ancient, um, the ancient pyramid in Egypt, um, that sort of, uh, focuses electromagnetic energy.
And, um, and, um, I thought, well, what if the, what if there's some sort of mechanism like that inside the human brain?
Um, what if the, um, somatosensory cortex was like a, an inward pointing, an upside down pyramid that was pointing, um, and towards the, uh, temporal parietal junction.
At its peak, at its peak, at the peak of the pyramid. And what if the parietal cortex and the occipital cortex were each pointing towards, and, and the auditory cortex and the, um, temporal cortex were all pointing towards the TPJ.
Like, like, the TPJ was like, the top of the pyramid for each of these pyramids, or each of these, um, brain sections.
And I'm just, I'm just speculating, like, yeah, it is a hierarchy.
But, like, um, maybe the TPJ is a sub-hierarchy for this, for, for the incoming sensory, uh, for the primary sensory, uh, for the three primary sensory, uh, areas, input areas.
And maybe it continues to be, like, um, yeah, maybe it's the inner, the brain areas that are in between, on the inside, serve as, sort of, like, the peaks of the pyramids.
It's where, and, and maybe there's some sort of, like, electromagnetism is, uh, somehow focused inward by the shape of the skull and concentrated in the center.
So, the electromagnetic energy could be the strongest, and most concentrated in the center of our, uh, brain.
And that's where the strongest, if that's true, then that's where the strongest, um, electromagnetic waves would emanate from.
But then they would be, you know, downshifted and modulated in all directions.
But almost in, um, almost perhaps reflecting the pyramidal shape, uh, not, sorry, the inverted pyramidal shape, where the, there'd be, like, pyramids on a, um, on the inside of a Dyson sphere, right?
So they're all pointed towards this, it's like, so a Dyson sphere is, like, um, if you could build something, um, around the sun that,
um, was designed to maximally harness solar energy.
So if you could build something that's, like, the distance of Earth away from the sun, but it went all the way around the entire sun,
so that you could, um, be at about Earth's distance away from the sun, but, um, there'd be this massive.
So the Dyson sphere would basically be, like, the sun is inside the Dyson sphere, right?
So the Dyson sphere is an artificial platform, and the sun is inside it.
And the Dyson sphere is so big that you're at the distance of, that if the sun, when the sun is perfectly in the center of the Dyson sphere,
that, um, the distance to each, to, to the nearest wall of the Dyson sphere, the wall of the sphere itself,
is the same distance between the sun and the Earth.
So in, in that sense, like, you could have, um, somehow, I guess, you could have, it could have an atmosphere,
and that could be life-burning on it.
It, it would be getting sunlight 24-7, so it would be different.
That's interesting.
But, but you could definitely, the solar could definitely be, like, the chief source of
how plants and people would be different if, um, we had 24-7 sunlight.
If the sun, if you're just facing the sun all the time.
That's good.
