=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0130y The missing opportunities in multi-modal eeg eit neural networking
First recorded: 2021-10-14T18:59:56.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/11c6c5d9-8b74-4e4d-a9af-a7c508753ef7
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So, um, maybe, I would expect, and I could be wrong, but maybe like one step before we get to, um, iRobot, I would expect someone to come out with a line of self-driving helmets, right?
Uh, self-driving helmets are like, uh, a helmet that, so, so we have, uh, with VR, there's position tracking by detecting edges in the environment, right?
The AI is looking for identifiable markers in the environment, and that is, uh, allowing a headset to predict its, its position in space.
There's also position tracking via, um, time of flight sensors, um, simultaneously, uh, simultaneous, uh, location, uh, and mapping.
Based on, uh, when signals are received, so a depth, uh, uh, the depth of a space can be calculated with time of flight sensors, um, or by recognizing features in the world.
I think that if you get, if you, like, basically, um, you know, it seems like you could describe, uh, position tracking of the Oculus Quest as kind of like a sparse version of cement, of 3D semantic segmentation, or 3D, uh, 3D object segmentation.
But really, it's like, um, it's like, um, 3D edge detection.
Yeah, it's kind of like 3D edge detection, or 3D, yeah.
Um, but, but scaled up, it could be 3D object detection, instead of 3D edge detection.
3D object detection.
I mean, I guess that would be competitionally more expensive, right?
But, but, so, like, a self-driving helmet is one that can, uh, give you directions on where to go.
And then, um, you know, suggestions on where to go, when to go, when to stop.
If you can go forward, when you need to take a step back to avoid a collision.
So, basically, it would, it would monitor, um, the goal is for it to monitor the, the world around you,
and basically act like a self-driving car, slash AI, slash augmented reality guidance system.
Right.
And, um, like, you know, humans will test it, and improve it, and so, um,
um, the idea is that it has, it sort of, like, has a guidance system that learns from also watching what humans do
when humans deviate from its guidance system.
Right, so it's, so it's, it's, uh, learning to predict what the user might do,
and incorporating that, blending that into its predictions.
Or by becoming aware, it's, like, so the idea is, like, yeah, you can have a stage where you have a device that is,
um, making predictions of both the environment and, uh, of the user.
Uh, which would be, like, as if the car was, like, really monitoring its own movements.
But the goal, yeah, but the goal is, and, and able to, and, and able to, like, imagine what
their consequences of various combinations of patterns might be.
Like, what if the user does something unexpected?
Can I predict, or can I predict the user so that if they do something that has some sort of consequence
that, uh, affects the, um, the metrics of the, uh, the driving unit to make the, you know,
it could be, like, the efficiency of the route better or worse, or more dangerous or less dangerous.
These could be things that the effect, like, influencing user behavior so as to avoid certain, uh, you know,
triggering the user to, to execute certain patterns and encouraging the user to execute certain patterns
depending upon which types of, um, um, motion patterns are consistent with the type of maneuver
that fits the computer, that fits the computer's, uh, uh, goals.
So the user, so, in effect, the self-driving helmet would help the user navigate.
Now, now you say, well, okay, well, it's similar, it is similar to a concept to having, like,
augmented reality navigation on a, on a phone, you're just putting it on, on a headset.
It's the same idea, but want to use really, um, sort of advanced world recognizing,
um, object recognizing 3D semantic segmentation, um, operations so that, um,
um, the, the, the function of the experience has, has maximum value for both the individuals
and, and, uh, for the collective users who use the system, and also for people who don't use it.
We're trying to improve our scores across multiple domains for users, non-users, and for, um, for, um, for individuals and the collective.
But, um, but, this transition, transitionary device is essentially, like, building the building blocks of what will be iRobot
into, um, uh, a, into wearable glasses so that there is this sort of, like, transition and convergent.
There's a, there's, there's, there's an opportunity for, basically, this convergence between, you know, uh, AI
and, uh, humans through a VR-like device, through an AR, a glasses-type device.
And, um, but not, but not necessarily through direct electric magnetic stimulation.
All the direct stimulation, uh, or close, close, close feedback therapy to, um, to, via direct neuronal stimulations, uh,
simulations and readouts is, um, is, um, is, uh, plausible both, both with, um, non-invasive and invasive methods.
The, um, the, um, the, the potential for, uh, for non-invasive neurofeedback, uh, or, or, um, close with therapy or medical imaging is, is, um, we, no, no one can say that it's reached its potential, uh,
uh, peak, in terms of what can be done or can't be done.
There is, you know, it's, it's, I think that, um, it will be seen as one of the greatest mistakes, perhaps, in the history of medical research, that, um,
that, um, that so much research has, has been siloed, uh, separated, segregated into different compartments with, uh, so much focus on, on, on these money printing MRI machines,
and, uh, basically to the dearth of all other modalities of study, which, which is a tragedy on multiple scales,
because the potential for, um, for taking, uh, some of the newer, uh, innovations in, in computer science
and applying them to the long, the long history of, uh, uh, uh, medical, medical imaging technologies,
there's a vast number of medical imaging technologies that, that are understudied and are grossly being ignored by the major universities,
because, um, they, they sort of, like, have embodied the attitude of, like, all the good ideas have been thought of here,
so we're not going to look for any more good ideas, and we're not going to fund any more research in this area,
because we don't think that new discoveries are going to be forthcoming.
And it's, it's, um, that by itself is ridiculous and stupid, but it's also, um, it's also missing the, the greater point,
which is that there is, there is, uh, a huge potential value, uh, being overlooked in, sort of, like, in multimodal,
that, I'm sorry, a huge potential value that has historically been overlooked, may not, it may not be, um, being overlooked right now,
but in the past it was overlooked, and that's multimodal studies.
Um, you know, there, there have been a lot of multimodal studies, well, I'm sorry, multi, multimodal,
I mean, what, what I mean by that is, like, you know, so, so, a study that combines, uh, uh, two different, two or more, um,
different medical imaging technologies together.
This is, this has actually happened, these kinds of studies have happened a lot.
Um, but, there is a, but the new opportunity is, comes with, you know, um, I think, you know, combining, uh,
uh, uh, innovations in, in, in neural networks, uh, with, um, with, um, with multimodal studies,
and, uh, uh, more ambitious, um, devices that attempt to take things beyond just, um, you know,
uh, hemispheric or lateralization studies, and, um, really, like, so, you know, some sort of,
like, large-scale, um, uh, 3D modeling of whole-brain activity, um, uh, doing, like, you know,
large-scale studies that combine, um, EIT with, with, with EEG, with, with MEG, with, we want to, uh, perhaps think about, um,
um, you know, also doing, uh, uh, you know, correlations that include, uh, voice and behavior, um,
um, and, uh, you know, so there are studies that, uh, that would fit the bill of what I'm talking about,
such as the, such as the, um, you know, the research being done by the Child Mind Institute,
uh, that I've heard, I've heard people talking about in terms of, like, the multimodal nature of the study,
and, sort of, like, it's a massive study, they're giving away the stuff for free, but they're also
very specific about how, you know, about, you know, uh, describing the math, the methods of the study
in sufficient detail that they can be, that someone, that someone else who has never met those researchers
can, um, can continue the study by producing results in the same way.
Um, so this is, so this kind of, like, rigorously defined study can be repeated at larger scales
with independent researchers because the researchers are producing it in sufficient detail.
Thank you.
Thank you.
