=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0138y THE REAL FRAME RATE OF Prioception Neurons Movement Frame Rate
First recorded: 2021-10-11T19:29:40.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/ec0cc649-fe2d-46fe-b503-37789440b275
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
The frame rate of consciousness, you know, so, in Tom Beakbane's book, How to Understand Everything, he says that, you know, the speed of an athlete's movement, you know, is too fast for your brain to process, your brain is a second to process.
And so you have, you know, you have your motor movement, it's going to be somewhat automatic, it's going to have some sort of representation that allows you to react faster, make choices faster than the people think.
But his, I think his assumptions are wrong. It's just that a neuron, if you think, like, if you consider the fact that you have neurons are sort of like, what would happen is you'd have a neuron that would be tracking the patterns of other neurons,
but by collecting, but by collecting, in one instance, by collecting ionic charges from the ionotropic receptors.
And so it would be filling up with sodium from each of its receptors, and this would be faster than the, you know, this would be faster than the time scale of action potentials.
We're talking, you know, we're talking, you know, receptors firing in the three millisecond range per receptor.
And then if you have a neural circuit, right, so like, even if you're at the neuronal frequency, like the action potential, somewhat bursting frequency of neurons,
if you have, um, an entire neural circuit that is also listening, uh, with all of the branching, uh, to your local patterns,
and please don't look at me, like, mind your own business, please, what the fuck are you doing? Leave me alone.
Um, so if you have, if you have, um, if you have, if you have, if you have neurons, uh, firing, um, simultaneously,
simultaneously, then what that is like, it's like, um, you are multiplying your frame rate, you're multiplying your response rate.
And so not only are they, like, you know, it's a predicting future movements, so they're imagining future movements before they happen.
And, uh, the frame rate of consciousness is not, uh, one neuron per second, it's 86 billion neurons.
It's, it's, it's, it's, it's not, it's not, it's not, okay, so you're not an all-firing 17, honestly, but it's, it's, it's, it's some, uh, large fraction of 86 billion neurons.
And so you have to multiply the frame rate of your potential response speed by the number of neurons running in parallel.
So if you, if you have a billion neurons that are all firing in parallel, then your, then your real actual response frame rate is a billion times, times the frame rate of a, of a, of an actual potential.
But realistically, it's a billion, it's, it's, it's, it's closer to, like, a billion times the frame rate of, of each synapse.
Or, well, I mean, we're counting all the synapses as the trillion times the frame rate of, so your brain is plenty fast enough to coordinate your movement, uh, in real time.
And the idea that your movement has to be coordinated by your spine, or, um, you know, comes to a great matter located throughout your, your, um, your body, um, is the wrong conclusion.
Thank you.
