=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0143y Neuron Memory Oscillation
First recorded: 2021-10-11T03:54:10.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/2697bfd8-925d-4547-96d3-0e05112e68cb
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So I guess I can share my thoughts on uploading, but I should talk about the time that I had that dream that we could go to a cafe and the computer would facilitate a lucid dream through a connection.
We'd connect AI to our belt or to our shoulder or something.
And the thing is, with virtual reality, virtual reality shows us that, which is changes to what we're seeing and hearing, we can have the feeling and the belief that we're in another place.
So it's not the case really that we have to reach the thalamus in order to trick the brain into experiencing something that's not there.
Any part of the nervous system that has sufficient bandwidth to receive sensory information on the scale of vision, hearing, and touch, that could be used as a pipeline.
So you can disconnect with the nervous system and overwhelm the signals that are there or inhibit the signals that the brain is receiving to other areas.
It could be a combination of a blindfold, or you could tell part of the brain to basically turn off or sleep or become inhibited.
You could use anesthesia, a local anesthesia to just inhibit certain areas of the brain, like just maybe the visual cortex.
I don't know if that's possible, essentially like temporary blindness, temporary inability to hear.
And you're sort of creating a sensory deprivation tank on the one hand, but on the other hand, you're sending in a new sensory stimulus that contains audio, visual, and in-touch patterns.
So you're able to put the brain into like Sword Art Online or like The Matrix.
Interfaces, by placing interfaces around the brain to study the brain signals, the regional brain signals.
Like, it's like having multiple neural links all over the brain, for example, or the open water all over.
We want to basically predict the temporal and spatial activations that will allow us to reverse engineer,
like reversing the refraction of light and holography, to reverse sort of like engineer the memory structure.
And I do believe, I think perhaps long-term memory is like a structural change to a neuron that affects its resonant properties
across multiple modalities in terms of like the discharge of electric solitons, magnetic solitons, sound-based solitons, and chemicals.
And also, so I guess electric, sound-based solitons, mechanical or vibrational solitons, and audio solitons.
So neurons could detect and transmit these solitons waves, which are essentially, it's like a drum pattern, a multi-modal drumming, or basically a face.
And the next neuron is only detecting, they only need a piece of that because they don't need to feel the whole thing.
But just a tiny piece of it, because the thing is, the neuron is transferring its phase information to the next neuron.
And that means that whether it fired with the oscillation, whether it fired faster than the oscillation,
or whether it didn't fire with the oscillation.
And if it fired faster, how much faster than the oscillation did it fire?
Like what frequency?
Because that also is going to affect how other neurons perceive it.
And so neurons, let's say they can relate to, they each feel their own feelings, how they're being changed.
But they can pay attention to, basically, they can predict, it's not that they have a sense of identity.
It's that there's a sense of, there's no sense of identity for a neuron.
It's that there's a sense of, of, of, of phase changes.
Because it's, because the neuron learns patterns.
So it's, it's learned patterns are sort of expecting phase changes of, of that match previous phase pattern, phase changes.
So those are, like, learned patterns.
And, um, so the, the ions and the, the neurons activations are, in transmissions of phases, are this short-term memory calculation.
But the, but the, but that causes, you know, the, the, the protein has to, and the new protein synthesis happens because it's, it's, I don't know, it's been not, the neurons have been knocked a certain way.
Like, like, this was a really big event, and maybe it, maybe it damaged the structure of a neuron or something.
The neuron broke apart in some way.
And so a new protein was ordered.
It's a new protein since this happens.
And when the new protein arrives to sort of mend, to sort of mend the, the broken neuron, a long-term memory is formed.
Because now, when the bell of the neuron is, is, is hit, is resonating with, with an actual potential event, the resonation, uh, is a distinct pattern.
It's a different phase pattern.
So the phase pattern has been, may, has been made distinct in the memories of other neurons.
It's distinct compared to how it was previously.
And that results in the increased likelihood of a long-term memory being recalled.
Because the neuron's physical shape is more, is rem, is reminiscent of, of a particular memory.
The neuron's physical shape becomes reminiscent of a particular memory.
Because it's, it's, it's, uh, it's now been tuned, like tuning a musical instrument, to, uh, to do, to create a, a, a kind of sound, or a kind, represented by, uh, its, its, its phase behavior.
That, uh, that, uh, that the nearby neurons can recognize.
So it's like, maybe it sounds more like, like, uh, the letter T.
Maybe you have a neuron that sounds more like the letter T, because its structure has been changed so many times to, to represent the types of incoming patterns that it gets.
And maybe that's why there's a Jennifer Aniston neuron, because that particular neuron has been tuned, uh, to fire when certain feature, when a certain collection of features is detected.
And it, it integrates a lot of, um, cross-traffic patterns.
And so the Jennifer Aniston neuron, it still represents a distributed pattern, but it represents that neurons can be, can become tuned to, uh, to certain faces.
