=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0146y Graziano Neurons Consciousness Animals
First recorded: 2021-10-11T02:32:49.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/ae45a235-1616-46ce-b032-3cfc0c22ed44
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Artificial consciousness. Data and C-3PO. So I see neurons as something different. Like there's, there's, you know, the neuron is a multimodal neural network, but it also, but it's also the case that it's, it's, you know, when I describe neurons, like it's not news to anybody that neurons oscillate tonically.
It's not news to a neuroscientist, but you don't hear that in the average description when a neuron is described. The function of a neuron is described.
They say the neuron is something that, you know, receives signals from other neurons, and then when it reaches a certain threshold, it fires.
But they don't talk about the neuron, uh, discriminating against, with, with, uh, different, the neuron basically doing pattern recognition, right?
Like, like where it's, in order to do pattern recognition, that means that you don't just fire when you fill up with data.
You fire when you receive a certain pattern, and you don't fire if you don't receive a certain pattern, right?
So I really liked, you know, uh, Peter T.S.E., his book, Criterial Causation, or, or the Neural Basis of Freewell, Criterial Causation.
He, um, he, um, he, um, he talked about how, um, you know, a neuron's criteria, uh, could be set in terms of, um, you know, thresholds at the synaptic, at the synapse.
The N, N, N, N, M, D, A synapse, and the AMPA synapse, uh, can, they can have a threshold where if they receive incoming signals within, uh, three milliseconds, that, you know, for example, or two milliseconds, maybe it's three and a half milliseconds, but there's a specific window that they're looking for.
If signals arrive outside that window, um, that's not going to cause a synaptic firing event.
It's not going to, um, you know, cause a, uh, the neuron to fire.
But, um, but we also want to say there's definitely opportunities for, um, neurons to reject signals.
Like, you could get a lot of, a lot of, a lot of, um, you know, like, the example of the neuron that only fires when it receives horizontal data.
It, it, it is, imagine that this neuron could be sent a whole bunch of vertical data in the form of, like, having, uh, you know, neurotransmitters being sent from other neurons to it.
But in order to, but in order to, but because that's the wrong pattern, it has to have some way to defuse, uh, those, that flood of electrical activity.
So that it doesn't fire when it gets the wrong pattern.
And you see, there's a lot of, like, um, you know, it could be that the, you know, sodium channels could be blocked or inhibited.
Uh, or it could be that the, that potassium channels could be, um, upregulated or, or, um, opened early.
So that potassium floods out earlier to inhibit the, the, um, uh, uh, the, uh, the, the potential of the action potential before it, it, it, it, uh, it happens.
There's, um, there's, um, there is, uh, you know, so events on the synaptic level that can be, can modify the, you know, operation of, of what the synapse responds to.
Um, and then the dendrite itself is, is, you know, the dendrite includes, is, is, is, this brain is, yeah, I don't know all the, all the mechanisms of how a cell might reject or it might self-inhibit its own firing.
If it's not getting, if it's not getting the pattern that it's flipping for.
But that is the, basically the hypothesis, um, that is basically a hypothesis.
And it cuts to, like, basically the granularity of pattern detection.
Whether there is, like, a, a microscopic pattern detection.
Whether each, each neuron can be a pattern detector.
And I've heard arguments that say, okay, well, you know, whether the, whether the neuron, there was a paper that came out.
Uh, so the neuron is a, is a two-layer neural network.
And then there was a later paper that said, well, the dendrite is a five-layer neural network.
And it can report temple and spatial patterns across, across its, um, membrane.
It can detect temple and spatial patterns.
Right, so, I mean, the spatial patterns are, like, um, you know, things are, right, uh, could be, it could be as simple as, let's say, a spatial pattern is you have, uh, a lot of different receptors in a lot of different branches of a dendrite.
Right, and it's a spatial pattern because, um, it's like, it's like pixels all over the place.
There's a, literally, a space between these activations, uh, of these, uh, different branches of different, of sodium being pumped into different branches of a dendrite.
Right, so that's a spatial pattern.
And then over time, as the amount of sodium increases or decreases, or the, I'm sorry, really, like, the amount of charge increases or decreases in these branches of the dendrite,
you are, uh, uh, that, that is, uh, perhaps something that is a, the physical manifestation of, of a temporal pattern.
Right, like, oh, like, oh, like, if there's this, like, learned sequence where branch number one fills up, branch number two fills up, branch number three fills up,
and, um, in that order, the neuron is going to remember the, um, the, the order of that sequence.
But that sequence only works in milliseconds, because it has to be, basically, the detection of phases or changes inside a temporal, inside a temporal window, um,
um, that, uh, that, uh, that is on a topological or spatial, uh, with a topological or spatial distribution.
So there's a, there's a temple window of phases being received on the topology of the dendrite,
with the literal and physical embodiment of charge building up via the injection of sodium ions and the, the, the, uh, exfiltration of potassium ions.
Right.
That is a, uh, literally, like, a short-term, uh, timekeeping, uh, mechanism.
That is, that is, that is learning the, um, the, the, the temple spatial patterns, uh, associated with the, the temple, temple spatial patterns of phases.
Right.
So the phase, the phase is, um, you know, phases between, phases are, like, you know, two or more,
it's, like, a sequence map of two or more neurons, uh, that are firing, uh, within a certain millisecond as detected by synapse.
And, um, okay, so with the attention schema, he's proposing that there are some mechanisms that are driving attention
that are not directly related to the neurons themselves, or that they're neurons at a higher level that are driving attention in lower levels.
Um, or maybe, um, or maybe, so I was just going to say that it could be possible for, um, different levels of, of, of neurons to each be contributing to driving, uh, attention,
because they're essentially, uh, selecting to playback, uh, patterns, preferred patterns that they've learned.
So maybe the, the pattern is partially triggered, and that causes the network to play back, uh, that pattern to, um, to take it, to try to complete a pattern.
And it's sort of like the momentum, uh, of that pattern being partially triggered that might cause the, uh, neural circuit to go in search of that pattern.
And so by going in search of that pattern, it might drive and coordinate the activity of other neurons in, in the pursuit of completing the pattern that it, it, it, it thinks it detects.
Um, and so you have basically ensembles of neurons or neurons at different levels, uh, large groups of neurons, but also single neurons at a tipping point that can shift the direction of behavior, um, towards the selection of one pattern or another,
based upon what they're based upon what they think is going to be, um, um, there, and, and maybe they're, we could define sort of like what, what neurons are attracted to.
And that it might be that they're just attracted to completing certain patterns and certain patterns that have certain rewards.
And I guess we could, we could argue, okay, those, those are chemical rewards in some instances, but the chemical rewards are linked to patterns being completed, essentially.
But it's like the momentum, the magnetic and electric and chemical momentum, uh, completion, because of the rhythm and readiness of neurons to complete patterns, uh, sometimes induces,
basically where the organism is driving the completion of its own patterns or driving its own narrative in deviation of, uh, signals that the external environment is trying to feed the system.
It seems that, uh, Michael Graziano thinks of consciousness as, um, as, as, uh, you know, something that one tiny piece of your brain adds, like, it's something you add on to your models, uh, of reality.
So, you know, so, you know, he describes that, you know, you have a model of something visual in your visual cortex, and, um, maybe you have models of words in your auditory cortex, and, and you'll, you'll, you'll have, um, you'll be able to identify faces in your, uh, in your temporal cortex.
And, um, but, um, but, but then, you know, somehow the activity in the temporal parietal junction, or the TPJ, is going to, um, add a consciousness module to the whole operation.
So it's like, and a consciousness model means you have a model for what consciousness is, but it also means that you're conscious.
And so, like, there's this, like, kind of, I think, I think there's an unspoken conflation that he doesn't make, but there's, like, an unspoken conflation between, um, what part of your brain becomes active, the TPJ, when you are phenomenally conscious of the thing that you're paying attention to, that your, that your lower senses are paying attention to.
So it's possible that you could put, uh, an apple in front of someone so that their, their eyes can see the apple, but they're not paying attention to the apple, they're paying attention to someone, to someone else.
And so there is, like, and so there is, like, this separation between what attention is, and the attention schema theory, uh, and what consciousness is, because, you know, you might have an apple in your, uh, in your receptive field that you're not conscious of.
And, um, and, um, and so attention and, and consciousness are two different things.
But your, but your brain might be, we might see that your brain on the low, in the lower levels, uh, may perhaps in the visual cortex, is tracking the apple, even if it hasn't registered to you, to you.
And so, you know, what, what, what, what the researchers, uh, some researchers believe is, from based on their observations, is that, you know, when that person, it, when the apple is there in front of them, and they're aware of it, they see the temporal parietal junction lighting up.
So, like, yeah, so the temporal parietal junction, which I joked is the, which could be the LED of, of the conscious system, is, uh, that indicates that consciousness, consciousness is, is happening.
Um, I think he interpreted, he interprets it as a consciousness module, which is, like, if you have this additional component, then you can, uh, be conscious, and you can understand
what consciousness is, and you can describe consciousness, and it's just a module, right?
Like, uh, it's a place where the model of consciousness and the information sort of, like, traffics to, in such a, in such a way that you can now, you know, speak of a conscious and describe it, you can say things like,
like, I am conscious because I'm conscious, which, as he points out, is a bit of, is, is, um, is, uh, not a, not, it's not a very satisfactory, um, thing to say, it may be, uh, tautological, to say, I'm conscious because I'm conscious, right?
Um, and, uh, you wouldn't be, like, if you just had a machine that just told you, like, a computer, if you're trying to, it's not, that's not a very good Turing test, right?
If, if the computer just, if it's unconscious, it's unconscious, it doesn't really, it's not very informative, it doesn't really pass along, uh, the, uh, I think what you need,
I think what we're looking for when we are testing machines now is a Turing test almost, is, like, well, does the machine transform and return information and knowledge the way a human being would, right?
Does, does the machine, can I, can I say something and describe pictures and describe animation and describe places and people and all the knowledge representations
and properties of the, uh, models that represent all these people and get to a place where, um, you know, my dis, my discussion of all, of all these, um, concepts is something that, um,
um, is something that is resonating with the other person in a sense that I can, that, um, seems, seems like a human, like, seems like I'm interacting with the human being or with the, with the conscious entity in some way?
I guess, uh, you know, I guess in the case of, in the case of, um, animals, people sometimes feel like their dogs are conscious or their cats are conscious and, and, uh, so,
an animal can't obviously, like, give you a complex response and transform words into other words and, and as far as reading the mind of an animal, there's, there's, um, animal can make sounds, the animal can make movements and, and, uh, so there's a combination of, um, non-verbal and, uh, and, uh,
communication, but also auditory communication, but the, but I, I think it is, it is very interesting that, uh, animals do, um, take turns, um, communicating, that, that cats, like, when, when you communicate with a, with a cat, you, you can make various sounds and,
and, and, and the cat will respond to some of your sounds, um, and cats use sounds to, to communicate with one another, and, uh, so there's, like, a hissing sound, which means that the cat is not happy,
and so you can make inferences, well, well, is not happy about what? Well, whatever is an association, spatially or temporally, with that hissing sound,
you know, like, oh, there's a raccoon in the window, okay, cat's hissing, like, get, like, telling that other animal to get, get away, or something,
um, or letting the rest of us know that there's a, that there's a raccoon in the window, um, so the cat, so the, so animals are communicating, but then, you know, you, you can talk to an animal,
but the animal is really, is really able to take turns listening to what your expression is, and it's, animals seem to stop and consider, uh, even, even birds, birds will,
So, I've seen birds, um, they, they, they look around, and they consider the movements of people and bicyclists and cars, and they, they're, like, listening and watching with their eyes and ears,
um, or, um, you know, like, like, like, like a self-driving car, the bird has to predict where it can fly and where it can't fly,
so it has to predict the landscape, and it has to predict the momentum and orientation and direction, um, and the, the velocity, uh, every, of every object in the city,
that's around that bird, otherwise, it might get hit by a bicycle, or get hit by a car, or get hit, or get eaten by, um, by a larger bird,
or, you know, who, who knows what, but, but it, it is, that's the key, is that, is that, um, there is a sort of, uh, I don't want to say handshake,
but a sort of, um, exchange, and the exchanges between humans and animals, they have, there's exchange rates,
temporal exchange rates, like the rates, in which I'm going to listen for about this long before I talk.
I'm going to observe for about this long before I do.
And this, um, sort of external communication between, um, uh, between animals, between persons, um,
it also happens, it also happens inside your brain, where you have, basically, networks of, of cells that are chatting,
which means that some of them are sending messages while others are listening.
And then, the ones that were, that, that sent messages become inhibited for a while, so, um,
and, um, and while, uh, a different set of neurons is going to fire based upon what they listen to.
And, um, and while, and while that's happening, there's another set of neurons that's, that's listening to those neurons.
And those neurons, uh, when it's their turn to fire, maybe, maybe the first set of neurons is ready again.
Um, and so this is, yeah, this is, like, the three sets of neurons model.
Like, imagine you had, just to oversimplify it a bit, imagine that you had, um, the entire V1
is going to respond at once.
And it's going to respond by some of the neurons getting excited, and some of them being inhibited,
and some of them, uh, uh, uh, remaining in, in, uh, tonic oscillation.
Most of them remaining in a tonic oscillation.
Okay.
And then, um, so then you have the V2, and the V2 is listening to the V1.
And so now, in the V2, you're going to have, uh, the neurons that were listening, which is,
you know, all of them, you're going to have a situation where some of them get excited,
and some of them get inhibited.
And this, this is a reflection of the patterns that they, that the V2 was observing.
But, it's a transmission reflection.
So the transmission is the reflection.
The reflection, it now, um, uh, I guess, I guess the story is it's going to keep going
up the hierarchy, but some signals also travel backwards, downwards.
Um, they travel in three different directions.
You know, it's, it's in, well, six different directions.
The signals travel up, and they travel down, they travel left, and they travel right.
And, um, they travel forwards and backwards, right?
They spread out, uh, radially.
They shoot back down to the first layer, they shoot up to the V4.
They shoot to the, um, to another, uh, brain region, the parietal cortex, and, and, and the,
and they shoot to the, the, the temporal cortex, and, and they shoot to the auditory cortex.
