=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0140y Neo Mind Cycle- Extenda Brain Universe Consciousness
First recorded: 2021-10-11T07:19:54.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/29d86e3c-0151-404a-ad38-6599f1fb1178
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
And I think of extended brain as like a third neocortex that you connect to your current brain.
And you think about the quantum double slit experiment and how the observer seems to change reality just by observing it.
And I start to wonder, if I observe the beginning of the universe, even as a concept in my mind, but if I felt like I observed it as this ever-present-now moment, what if my observation actually created the universe just because I observed it as this ever-present-now moment?
And then, of course, you know, if I can observe something, then probably someone else can observe something.
So, it's plausible that the, but the other thing is like, well, maybe each, each conscious entity is in its own way, on its own time schedule, making the observation of the cosmos itself and bringing that into existence in order to bring themselves into existence.
I mean, that's a little, I mean, that's a little, it's a little, it's a little, it's a weird possibility, I think, that each one of us is creating the universe by, at some point in our lives, conceptualizing what the universe might be.
And, um, in the sense that our brain is, that our brain is, that our brain is, that our brain is, as a software network is creating a model of reality that is a simulation of reality, that's not the actual reality.
Reality, but it's, it's that, maybe, each one of us is creating ourselves.
And we have this, like, universe where, um, we're all different, but we're all sort of, like, all this, like, we're all, like, all the stars in the universe.
Like, like, maybe all the stars are different, right?
And, and maybe, maybe the star or the black hole is the inversion of a person.
This is getting silly, but, I'm just like, yeah.
And so, that, that may, I mean, I mean, I guess that means that you're not, that none of us are God, or all of us combined are,
and each one of us is the creator of the universe, or one tentacle of the creator of the universe.
So, none of us are all of God, but each one of us is one of God's tentacles, in a way.
And each one of us is creating an aspect of the universe that is ourselves, including our birth, and, um,
and, uh, and the scope of our timeline and what we do.
So, I mean, this is, this is really kind of, like, very speculative, in terms of, like, you know,
in a very, very funny way that, um, you know, quantum physics is very funny,
where everything is relative to everything else.
This is the strangest of quantum physics.
And maybe we are bringing each, you know, if you look at that one quantum physicist,
maybe we are bringing our own, um, um, Skye and Nelson.
Maybe we are each, um, bringing together our own copy of the universe,
and because each of us is doing it, it works.
But in summary, it's like, you know, it's like our brain is the core.
I mean, I speculated that you could, you could potentially have, um, a consciousness that has no body,
it has nothing to get, nowhere to go.
But it is the result of, um, taking many different, um, um, consciousnesses that were once embodied.
It's like taking many brains of many mature human beings.
And then, and then you connect them all into one system,
so that they become an intelligent coral reef.
And they never move again, but they also never die again,
because they, you know, they, they, um, you know,
I guess if the tissue gets damaged, but the brain is, like, um,
able to copy itself and back itself up, so it could be restored, potentially.
But we could be, we could become, like, a giant coral that surrounds Earth,
and just like a plant, but like an intelligent plant,
where we live virtually inside this coral.
And then it's very peaceful, and, like, all the work has been done, right?
That's, that's part of the story.
And so the AI emerges with us, and we, we, um, and we transition with the AI
to this godlike intelligence that can program the universe, and, and, and, um,
and it control, it controls the Earth.
It can change the Earth, like, um, you know, it surrounds and, and manipulates space,
and, and everything, um, but then, you know, maybe the technology could even shrink again,
where that coral sort of, like, becomes people again,
and the technology is sort of, like, technology just disappears into our bodies,
and we just become people again.
People without any visible technology, where all the tech is inside,
and it's, like, the rebirth of humanity, and the coral sort of disappears,
and now people are, are allowed to walk.
And they, and maybe these are people of the future,
who are, um, they're learning about the past,
learning about who they were.
And they're learning.
And they're learning.
