=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0159y Four kinds of neural transmission Oscillator
First recorded: 2021-10-07T22:35:16.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/95fd1eca-8632-4037-a943-171ac5b6a7bb
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
The pixels of reality, the idea is that we get a picture of close-up pixels and show how from far away close-up pixels add up to a picture, but up close there's a bunch of dots.
And then you compare that to the firings of neurons, or the absence of firings of neurons.
The argument is that each neuron, or negative action potential, or negative action potential, is a deviation in the oscillation that is like the pixelation of a screen.
The oscillation is a screen, and then we have the neuron, which is going to be basically the pixel on the screen, on the oscillation.
And it's either going to go dark, like negative, or brighter, which is like changing its color.
And it doesn't look like much until you consider a lot of them simultaneously, and then you have a screen.
And the observer of the screen is the oscillator.
The oscillator is the one that can recognize patterns that emerge as differentials from its oscillation.
And as the oscillator itself takes the deviations and ropes them back in electromagnetically to the pace of the oscillator,
that process of one oscillator consuming another is causing felt effects to the oscillator and to all the neurons involved,
allowing them to encode the feeling of those pixels, of those positive and negative potentials.
Okay?
So, we get a picture, and we zoom it out.
Because I am very literally seeing, when I see with my eyes, I'm seeing a picture that is very, very literally made up of positive and negative potentials.
Positive and negative potentials, very literally.
And you say, well, okay, now, the neuron isn't passing along, like, it's not passing a potential from one neuron to another.
No, but when potential flows, but when current flows into a neuron,
a significant amount of that potential is leaking out of the neuron into the extracellular,
into the space around the dendrite.
And that leaking current could be the current that makes up the brain wave, right?
So, you have, so basically what I'm saying is, like, a certain percentage of the electricity just travels down the axon.
But, at the same time, a certain percentage of it leaks out of the membrane.
Every single time, you're going to have leakiness happen.
And the actual potential surge, it is going to be an event where a lot more leakiness happens.
And the leakiness, the leakiness that's happening is just as important as the surge itself.
So, the neuron itself is registering a massive event.
But, it's leaking out a massive event everywhere in the three dimensions.
Because the whole membrane is leaky.
And because the whole neuron is expanding, it's not just an electrical event that's leaking out.
It's a vibrational event.
It's a magnetic event.
And, it's just, there's a salt and a wave event.
The whole point is that the neuron is not just emitting a chemical transmission to the oscillator.
It's emitting a vibration.
And it's emitting a magnetic communication to other neurons.
And, an electric transmission to other neurons.
So, there's an electric transmission.
There's a vibrational transmission.
There's, so there's an electric transmission, vibrational transmission, magnetic transmission, and a chemical transmission.
And, by chemical, I mean there's an ionic transmission.
That literally affects the body or wall of, or membrane of another neuron.
So, that's already four different kinds of transmission.
And, we're in four different kinds of transmission, but with two different polarities.
So, the positive and negative transmissions, in the sense that there is a, there's a negative transmission in the sense of, like, there's, the oscillator has groups of neurons firing together at regular intervals.
And, when a neuron is inhibited more quickly, when you get a negative action potential, a neuron is inhibited such that it doesn't fire at the regular tonic rate.
That is a negative action potential, in effect.
And, so that is creating, uh, the absence of the regular magnetic vibration.
The absence of the regular, uh, uh, magnetic emission.
The absence of the regular electric diffusion, electricity diffusion.
Um, and, and, and, and so, that negative, um, is going to change the, the body of the oscillator, right?
So, the body of the oscillator is going to be the, the shape of the oscillator, of the magnetic field that the oscillator is producing.
Uh, it should change, uh, by some, by some, by some delta.
And, when you get a lot of neurons inside an oscillator firing, then the delta is going to be larger than if you had, if you were, obviously, more significant.
And, that delta is going to change how other oscillators, uh, perceive that oscillator when you have two oscillators connecting.
So, there's these distinctions happening that are, that groups of neurons are able to collectively track, uh, what other groups of neurons are doing.
The noise of the Vegas people are getting off of the
high Cooper Berg trying to create an relentless signal.
Thank you.
