=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0155y Soliton waves Neurons Pattern Frequency
First recorded: 2021-10-09T08:15:00.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/bc4250ca-10bb-424d-8297-6fe41347e06a
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So, the dendrite is noticing the cadence of the incoming signals, and it's noticing, like, so, if another neuron below it is going to depolarize,
or it's going to become inhibited from depolarizing in either situation, the reason other neurons notice that is because they were going to, they were expecting a certain, like, they're expecting a certain cadence.
Right? And that cadence is the tonic frequency. And the tonic frequency is being, so, they're, so, what they're, what they're feeling, first and foremost, is their own search.
Okay? But, their own personal feeling, which is creating the, which is creating an, um, a magnetic wave, by the way.
It's creating an, an, an, an, it feels, it, the neuron feels its own electrical surge, but that's passing on a soliton wave to the, to other neurons.
And, so, other neurons are receiving the soliton wave, but the soliton wave is also going to, maybe it will split up over the different branches of the, of both the, uh, all, of all the branches,
both on the dendrite and on the, and on the, and go, and, it'll go out in every direction, because it's like, um, including to the, um, the soliton wave will shake the, the lever dendro sites.
So, it's sending, it's sending, uh, soliton wave along the lever dendro sites.
So, it's able to send, but it doesn't send the soliton, but, I, I think, perhaps, it doesn't send the soliton wave to other neurons.
It sends the neurotransmitters instead.
And the neurotransmitters are transmitting the timing.
Right, so that's counting the time, the frequency of how, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, and the frequency is carving the dot matrix in the oscillator, right?
Whether it's inhibited or excited, that's carving the dot matrix in the oscillator.
So, the, so that's what the neurons are doing, is that that's where the awareness is coming from.
But the soliton waves are passing signals into the muscles.
But anyway, it allows the neuron to send signals, not between neurons, but over, but just over, um, oligodendro sites.
And interestingly, that soliton wave could have, like, an audio frequency, like a tune, like a piano tune.
Could be playing a sound, like a sound, like an audible frequency.
But not audible to human ears.
There's, it's sort of like, um, it's an electromagnetic frequency that only, uh, it's only sort of felt.
Or sort of like, because it's going to vibrate the, the, the oligodendro site and the nerves that it's connected to.
So, it's kind of, so think of it as like, the neuron is making a drumbeat.
It's, that's being spread from neuron to neuron via interlinked oligodendro sites.
So, it's a drumbeat, but it's a drumbeat that, like, emits from, like, a certain point.
And then probably spreads radially across its network, branch, network branches of, of oligodendro sites, or the neurons.
And so, in that sense, there's like a graph of soliton waves.
Soliton wave-based communication.
And let's say that the, the neurons are the transmitters and receivers of this wave.
But, but interestingly, the oligodendro sites also have synapses, right?
That, or receptors, that can communicate with neurons.
So, that would mean that an oligodendro site could also count, and therefore, if it can count, it, basically, if it can track its, its, um, if it can, if it can predict its own firing, which is what counting does.
So, it's, it's predicting its own firing, when it's going to fire, then, because it has receptors, then, um, it's able to say, whoa, I've seen this pattern of activity before.
This means that I'm going to count.
And so, the dendroids count, does the counting, and it remembers different counts.
It remembers different patterns.
By count, I mean there's a certain, yeah, a certain pattern.
But if you use, like, you know, if you just, if you just create a graph that, like, plots all the nodes by their connections around a circle, so it doesn't look like neuroanatomy, like in, like in the, like in the, um, Orloff's, uh, Sporn's talk, Orloff Sporn's talk, or his book, Networks of the Brain.
You're just creating a, um, a graph that says, well, if something has, um, receptors, then it can listen, because it listens with its receptors when it receives ions.
So it's listening, or it's counting, which is the same thing.
But it's able to represent really complex, so I think the soliton wave is the narrative of consciousness.
I think that that's where, that's where, that's where thoughts, that's where the sequences of thoughts are shaped, one wave at a time.
Like, every word that I pronounce would be a sequence of thought, right?
So that's like, yeah, wow.
So that implies that, uh, soliton waves make up your inner voice, and they're the basis of language and speaking, and, um, they're the basis of, uh, inner thought.
And they help to coordinate your brain activity, but they're, but they're, it's like they're emitted simultaneously, so your neurons, um, are detecting, it's like your neurons are detecting and transmitting signals.
They're listening and speaking to each other, uh, with, uh, these chemical synapses and these electrical charges.
But at the point that, you know, but the next layer of that is the soliton wave, and that's where we have our inner thought space.
So the soliton wave is going to be reverberating with the same hertz frequency as the action potential, right?
Because the shape of the action potential is going to define the, um, the, the, the soliton wave emission.
And the soliton, and it could be that they, the neurons are so complex that they can represent any sort of, um, there's like an alphabet of, for representing sounds, probably, based on the networks or the brain pattern.
So your neurons would be forming certain alphabets would be, which would be creating certain, so the topological pattern, patterns emerging in the brain would represent different parts of the graph alphabet, 13 symbols.
That represent different, um, sort of modalities or different letters that the brain could use to construct, um, thoughts with, right?
It's like there's 13 different words that, 13 different letters that all thoughts are constructed from, right?
And in, I mean, okay, so like, but now, that's not that hard, because look, it's like, well, the letters in your alphabet, you've, in the English alphabet, there's 26 letters, okay?
And, um, and, um, but many of them are just, like, combinations of lines, right?
Like an A is, consists of three lines.
And B has curves, C has curves, D has a curve, and a line.
And so now, so now we're talking about, okay, well, a lot of them have lines, and, and, you know, like, K has just lines, L has just lines, M has just lines, N has just lines.
Some of them have just curves, you know, O, um, some, maybe, maybe O is the only one that has just curves.
But, like, okay, so then they all have, then the rest of them have, like, a combination of, like, uh, curves and lines, and, you know, R and P and Q.
Well, S is another, is this, another one that has just curves.
U is, U is, um, I guess U is just a curve, I guess.
Uh, I mean, you could think of it as a curve in two lines, but, you could also think of it as just a curve.
V is two lines, W is two lines, X is two lines, Y is two lines, Z is three lines.
So, I mean, it's like, um, yeah.
Uh, I mean, that's, it's like, yeah, I mean, they identified, like, 13 different possible, I need to look at that more to understand what that means, to be honest.
Like, wait a second.
If you can just, like, if you can make any graph out of 13 letters, you could definitely make any graph out of just, like, lines and, um, just out of lines.
Or lines and curves.
And you don't need an alphabet.
But, I guess, um, I guess that's one way to, I guess you could have an alphabet.
So, yeah, so, I mean, I think the alphabet is, like, hertz frequencies, like, the, the number of variation, the number of variations that a neuron can, that an action potential can fire at,
may be between 0.02 hertz and 600 hertz, right?
Maybe, I need to look that up to make sure.
The idea is that, um, the action potential can be between those hertz only.
But that represents, like, every possible, um, every possible.
I mean, it could be that maybe, maybe the hertz is what we see, right?
Like, maybe, and maybe the, so maybe the electro, let's see, maybe, okay, what if the, um, the solton wave sort of, like, explains how, how voice, how,
how, I mean, is my voice made out of solton waves, right?
That's what I'm thinking, like, how does my voice box work?
How does my voice box make sound?
Like, am I vibrating my vocal cords?
And do my vocal cords represent soliton waves?
Or, or, or no, because it's, I mean, it's audio, it's audible, right?
You're not hearing that, and, are you, there's no, like, if you, uh, uh, you know, wait, I think, I, I would, I would think that a brain would be completely silent to a microphone.
I think, I would think that a brain doesn't actually make, make audible noise.
I'm not sure.
That's another thing to look at.
So the dendrite is noticing a cadence.
It's going to become inhibited from the, from the depolarizing, and either situation we tell the neurons that this is because
they were expecting, they were expecting neurotransmitters at a tonic frequency, and then they either, they eat those neurotransmitters in order to complete a certain pattern.
So let's say they, so the dendrite remembered a pattern where it received a certain number of transmitters, and then another number, and then another number, and then another number, and there was a certain temporal pattern happening.
Okay, but let's say that suddenly the, the pattern, one part of the pattern drops off, because one of the neurons was inhibited, then it remembers that part.
Okay, so it's like four, it's like four, I got four electrons in a row from this guy, and then he gives me nothing.
And then, the, and then the guy next to him gives me a whole bunch of neurotransmitters, right?
You know, and, and, and, and so, a whole bunch from multi-vesicle waves.
So as the receiving neuron, I have this picture of, if I'm connected to many downstream neurons,
and, and, let's say one of them does a phasic firing, and gives me three vesicles, but it inhibits the others from firing, so I get no vesicles,
then suddenly my attention shifts to that one neuron, right?
Oh shit.
And that one neuron becomes a building block in my attention.
So, that becomes the light that appears in my vision.
But it appears in my, it appears in my, in my vision, but my vision is inside my head.
And, and, it appears inside my head to other neurons, because it's appearing to, um, there's a whole bunch of neurons that are three steps away from every other neuron, right?
It's like every neuron has three steps away from every other neuron.
So whenever, so, so they have so many in common.
There's so, so many, neurons have so many in common.
So there's, like, a whole bunch of neurons that notice when Jane fires.
Like, not just one person.
It's like a whole bunch notice.
A whole oscillator notices.
Right?
Because they all have, like, they all have many connections to each other.
So a whole bunch of neurons notice.
All the ones on that neuron's exit terminal.
That's a lot.
Right?
And, and because a whole bunch of them notice, they can all learn the same patterns.
Hey, Jane fired, Bob fired, Jim fired.
So all the neurons learn all the patterns.
All the neurons learn all the patterns.
They all learn the sequence in which Jane, Bob, and Jim fired.
And then Bob, Kevin, no one.
And then Mary and June fired.
Right?
So we have another sequence of neurons firing.
And the entire neural circuit, or the entire cortical column, is simultaneously learning every basic firing pattern.
Because it's just a physical memory being tracked by the expectations encoded in the dendrite.
The dendrite literally changes to match the patterns it has received in the past.
It's literally just, every time it gets a pattern, that pattern becomes encoded in the dendrite.
The dendrite is like a little camera that captures patterns.
But then, um, but it really captures and learns patterns that trigger it to fire.
Because those are the most interesting patterns.
The most interesting because that's, that's, that's, that's, um, those are the patterns that create the, um, the shakes.
The shakes are when the whole neuron shakes.
Because it's basically had an explosion.
Somewhat exploding.
And sending, uh, an electrical surge that creates a, a magnetic wave, a soliton wave.
That creates a tiny piece of your voice.
A millisecond of your voice.
Of your inner voice.
Um, but that could also send, um, that could also transmit, be transmitting signals that move your fingers.
And that move your, um, entire body.
Move your, your larynx, your voice.
You can have a lot of your body coordinated with soliton waves.
And, I mean, that could be, that could be, uh, one.
Um, and you could have a lot of feeling happening.
Like, your neurons are gonna, um, well, you shouldn't, you shouldn't be feeling anything inside your brain.
I mean, it should be just data, I guess.
I don't know.
Actually.
I do think I feel things inside my head.
I think.
It's not nerve endings, though.
I mean, it's not like, um, your brain should notice signals if they were suddenly disrupted by an injury or something.
Like, like, in the case of Phineas Gage, when a pull went straight through his head.
Because that's, like, a whole bunch of memories that are sort of, uh, torn apart and ripped away.
I would think.
Or a whole bunch of, like, um, I don't know.
It's, it's weird to say that because, like, here's the thing is, you're, what you're suggesting is that, like, um, a lot of different neurons are learning the same patterns.
But the thing is, they're all, they're each located spatially in a different space relative to one another.
So, each neuron's, the amount of information that each neuron receives is going to be different.
Right?
So, each one is receiving information from a different, uh, area of brain.
And the signals are going to be different because some of the areas are closer to the receptive fields.
Um, or the, um, the inputs, the sensory inputs, like the visual, like the eyes and the ears and the, and the, and the skin.
Like, some of the neurons are closer to the, to the sensory inputs.
But, but, and some of, and some of the neurons are, are very far away.
And so, that means that the signals that, uh, each group of neurons receives is going to be, um, different.
Like, light signals are different, like light signals are different from, from, uh, touch signals.
Right?
The, the, um, uh, the frequencies, and the, the temple and spatial frequencies.
Sorry.
The temple and spatial distribution of frequencies is, for each of the senses, is going to be slightly different.
And the temple is spatial, and that's what separates, actually also, all this, all the things we can sense.
Like, it's, like, it's what separates the feeling of your inner thought from smell, from emotions, from other kinds of feelings, from testosterone, from estrogen.
Like, like, all these feelings are different in terms of the temple-spatial coordinates, and the frequencies at each of the temple-spatial coordinates.
All of our different, like, um, like, smell, and vision, and hearing, and emotions are all different in terms of the temporal and spatial.
The graph, like, temporal and spatial, the 3D graph of temporal and spatial frequencies over time, right?
And that's what separates all the different kinds of knowledge, is that they have different, different, uh, patterns that, that they're, that they're evoking.
And so this is important because, like I said, there's, there's perception going on on multiple levels, right?
There's, there's ionotropic receptors, and there's, it's interesting because,
generators don't allow, the passage of, ions, but they do something.
And maybe it has to do with
Soliton Williams
