=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0163y Resolution mind Dog Consciousness
First recorded: 2021-10-03T21:39:22.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/0e5b83d7-15d9-4bf5-9048-adcabb8967c9
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So, I'm disagreeing with integrated information theory because I'm suggesting that we are, that consciousness is basically a multi-sensory rendering.
Like, that is something that we are sending and it's something that we are receiving.
And it's, it's in, in, in, in the way all, see, the whole objective is for the organism to make a functional map, a functional map.
So, differences in colors, differences in sound.
It's about the organism being able to navigate and put together really complex representations and really complex sequences of behavior in order to navigate a really complex world.
And, uh, the world keeps on getting more complex.
So, it keeps pulling our minds towards, uh, greater evolution and greater development.
Over, you know, over the course of evolution.
And evolution of scale.
So, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not suggesting we're going to turn into the X-Men or something.
That's very, that would be very fast evolution, right?
Um, joking, joking, joking, joking aside.
So, what's wrong with, I mean, so, I think that it's, it's very simple that, um, you know, the, that the, I would say that
the amount of integrated information is going to determine this sort of, uh, resolution of consciousness.
So, so that some people, so that, you know, a human being might experience, um, what they're looking at, at, uh, I don't know, 32K resolution, or whatever it is.
Um, you might be experiencing space in front of you at, at a certain resolution.
Because of this scale of your brain.
Um, and that's your whole brain's ability to put together a picture that, um, is functionally detailed enough
to match the demands of your ecosystem and environment.
So, I would, I would expect that, um, you know, I'm curious that if we could somehow, you know, add to a dog's brain,
to give a dog's brain the ability to, um, really pronounce words.
And a dog was able to train on words and something.
I mean, you'd have to add something to the dog's brain.
Because it's, it's, it doesn't have the same, uh, it doesn't have the same size or the same amount of, uh, um,
does, but the dog doesn't have a vocal area to its brain, right?
Um, I don't know what the, I, maybe I don't know if it's a precise, precise way to describe.
You know, a dog has, uh, some sort of vocalization, some sort of communication.
Dogs do bark, and they do take turns listening to other dogs barking before they bark.
There's, there's communication happening.
In this video, I saw she, she, um, this lady, this, uh, young lady, she had a dog, and she was making these videos about how funny her dog was.
Um, but she would, like, add, like, text.
So the dog would bark, and she would add plausible text to what the dog could be saying with its barking.
And the funny thing is, like, you could watch the video several times, and you could actually start to kind of believe that, um, that the, the words that she was mouthing were, were actually, like, um, a high-resolution version of what the dog was trying to say.
It's, I mean, it's just, it was...
I thought the library was open today.
