=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0161y Patterns Scale Brain
First recorded: 2021-10-04T21:18:58.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/15def110-932c-4417-b79e-66a822068358
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
The block world is like, so imagine Minecraft, but Minecraft is a world that's built out of cubes, right? It's like one instanced cube yields this massive world of cubes, and so it's sort of like a voxel engine in spirit, right?
Where you have just one shape that's just repeated infinitely, and that's the basic building block that everything is built out of.
But, you know, you could say that, you know, maybe, like, you could make an argument like that for consciousness, like it's made out of little blocks, like our representation of what we see, not the actual reality,
but our representation of reality is, like, made out of little blocks, but they're actually phase, temporal, spatial, and phase patterns, right?
You could say the same thing about the representations for feelings as being also made out of phase patterns that are inside an XYZ grid, like little blocks, right?
So feelings of feelings have certain spatial and temporal patterns that are described to them.
Same thing with audio, audio patterns. Same thing with smell. Smell has temporal, spatial, and phase characteristics, what frequency each part of the space-time grid is active.
And so the brain is able to track and build a model of some of the frequencies and sort of like trace the, and almost like trace the path,
like by representing different, like through movement, different parts of the model of the universe or the model of consciousness.
is modeled, and the brain is able to attach a four-dimensional robust learning, four dimension of, fourth dimension, another dimension of learning
that enriches the learning, because there's another vector to help increase the traction, help increase learning traction,
So that the effort to learn has more support.
It's a better framework, it's a better design for a learning vehicle, right?
A learning vehicle that's more performant, that learns better, versus a vehicle that's lower dimension and doesn't learn as well.
And so what I'm, what I'm talking about with the dendrite to MVR hypothesis is a higher, is learning that works faster and better with less data,
because it's a higher dimensional vehicle in the first place.
Consciousness is a memory system, or a note-taking system, or a special kind of hard drive.
So let's say that the co-occurrence of patterns in similar spatial areas, and in similar temporal areas, is going to have an effect on the shape of the magnetic fields
that are produced, that are produced, and where the center, where the dipole, or quadrupoles emerge, and the same thing is true with the electric dipoles and quadrupoles.
So the brain activity, or neural activity, is going to create, across the whole brain, from the most macroscopic perspective of the brain,
the microscopic activity is going to create magnetic moments, and it's going to create electromagnetic moments, magnetic moments and electric moments, of dipole activity.
That sort of, because what's happening is, if you have a pattern that's moving through the brain, and there's a lot of representations,
let's say you're seeing the same object from many different points of view, there's a lot of different representations of one particular thing.
Okay. Well, that is going to, by virtue of the fact that, on a macroscale, by the brain as a whole, should be able to detect that macroscopic pattern of magnetism.
Basically, basically, electromagnetism, or magnetism. Both kinds.
So you're going to have a different, so, because electric dipoles are different from magnetic dipoles, your brain is going to detect two types of patterns.
Okay, so the, so, um, so there's two different things that you can listen to, uh, in that respect.
On a, that your brain as a whole, on a macroscale, that is that part of the brain that is basically, it's there for large scale patterns.
And, and so, and the reason is because you have, you're going to have, um, you know, so you're going to have parts of the brain that aren't, they're basically neurons, the dendrites and neurons.
So you're going to focus on the smaller scale patterns.
That, and then, um, that's the micros, the microscale patterns.
And they, so they help to establish the details that you notice in every sensory modality.
And then, um, you're going to have, like, mesoscale, like, the cortical columns communicate the cortical columns, sometimes through the thalamus.
And so you're going to have mesoscale.
Um, because the cortical column, see, the cortical column itself, so the dendrite is learning everything that happens, um, to it.
But the cortical column is learning, um, firing sequences.
The cortical column as a whole is collectively learning firing sequences from individual firing neurons.
Because it's affecting the whole oscillation.
But then the brain as a whole is able to, um, learn global patterns that involve multiple cortical columns firing either in close, either closely together in, in temporally or closely together spatially.
Uh, and then create high-level associations between large groups of patterns.
Of large groups of mesoscale patterns and extremely large groups of detail patterns.
And so we end up with this, like, rich, like, sort of, like, three, three-tier reality where there's, like, um, a sense of rooms.
And then there's, like, a sense of our position inside rooms.
And then there's, uh, uh, a sense of what's around us when we're in that position inside rooms.
Right?
In the detail level.
And it's able to connect those three things together, which is, like, essential for, like, remembering, if you're moving around, you need to know, like, on a high level, which room you're in.
It's like, like, the grid level.
And what your position is in that room, or in that space.
Um, so that is the place level, or, and middle level.
And then the, the most detailed level is going to be the, um, uh, the what.
Uh, what, what, what is, what is the other content, you know, the detailed content of, of what you're seeing in front of you from that place, from that.
And, and it's the, it's the combination of all three that, uh, I think defines, um, for me, the, the, those three things are always, always seem to be present for me.
And, and what I would describe as my experience of consciousness.
I'm always at a place, it seems like, or with, there's always space, like, temple spatial space that always seems to be happening on a grand scale.
And then there's, uh, where I am, relative to space.
Relative to the space that I'm in.
Right?
So here I'm in this, I'm in this part of the grid, that's of space.
And relative to this part of the grid, I'm facing this direction.
And then the content, it's like, okay, what's all this stuff around me?
Like, my cell phone, my, my, um, computer, my desk, like everything else around me is the, it's the, it's the, the essential, maybe the, maybe it's the essential components of being an organism and being able to, um, navigate the space.
It's, it's sort of have this, like, map of associations between places and orient, the orientation of the self and then the positions and orientations of, of what's around the self.
And that seems to be, like, uh, an important building block for an animal to have.
Like, if you didn't have one of those three, it would, it might be harder to survive.
Um, right?
It might, I mean, it might be harder to survive through, it might be harder to move.
Okay, that's, it's, it's, that's what I should say.
It's, it's, um, but if you have to move in order to survive, then you're going to, then you're, you're going to, um, you're going to see people, you're going to see evolution happen.
But, basically, um, let's just say that evolution or adaption happens, um, to the survivors of major environmental changes.
Right, it's not, it's not, it's not like, yeah, you could say, well, evolution happened over millions of years, but it could also happen, potentially, um, you know, in a year, where it's, you have to suddenly change.
Because the environment changed, and what was required to survive in the new environment required something that, required a mutation that some people had.
Right, right? Um, but not everyone had.
People, so, yeah, the idea is people could change overnight.
The, um, the way that, let me pause, let's say that the, the multi-scale, uh, fractalization of brain activity, um, like, in terms of, like, how small patterns become repeated, uh, on the larger scales, or different scales.
Um, I believe that helps to, uh, create, uh, those fractal patterns, the same patterns that appear at different scales, are helping to, um, create, um, multi-scale, uh, tempo-spatial cohesion.
So that, um, basically, um, basically, the whole brain can, basically, a larger part of the brain can listen to a smaller pattern being played.
And, uh, that the data can be shared between the small pattern and the larger pattern.
And so you have multi-scale cohesion, or basically, um, taking a small analogy and making it into a large analogy, and taking a large analogy and making it into a small analogy to relate, um, data that comes in at different scales to other data that comes in at different scales.
So it'd be like being able to take the analogy of an ant community, a tiny insect community, like ants or bee community, and relate that to human beings.
Like, just imagine that human beings, uh, had a beehive, and imagine we had a queen, and imagine that we had, that, that, uh, that our society was a lot more like, like, going out and finding food and bringing it back home.
It's like, hunters and gatherers, maybe.
Mostly gatherers, I guess.
Um, I guess if we were, if we were like ants, mostly gatherers, right?
And then, um, but yeah, like, if we sent people out and they didn't come back, that would be a sign not to send ants in that direction.
But if we send out a scout, and the scout comes back with food, that would be a sign to send more ants to get more food.
And, um, so then the ant that comes back with food, he might, might be covered with food.
Or, um, or, um, you know, maybe, maybe not covered with food.
And maybe that would give us some sort of, maybe there'd be some sort of clue that would give the rest of us ants some sort of sign.
So that, it's like, again, it's like, the ants coming in with a small pattern, and then the collective, uh, the larger collective, is sort of, like, replicating a larger pattern.
So that there's a, there's a transfer of knowledge from, uh, from one scale to another.
And, um, this is about, um, this is about, um, analogies, uh, taking data and finding a, a top, a topological, uh, um, isomorphism that can be repeated at different scales.
So that we can basically have, um, information, the same information pattern represented in multiple domains.
Um, and then the two patterns can be contrasts to one another.
So when one change in one pattern happens, the, the, um, the change can, can be, um, also shared with other parts of the brain.
And the other parts of the brain, because they have this, because, because, uh, the, the models that we incorporate exist in multiple scales.
We can basically update, um, our knowledge when we gain new, when we, uh, when we gain new patterns.
But regardless of whether or not this pattern contains data, because I'm not, I'm not, I'm not sure if this pattern, if the pattern itself,
like, it would make sense if the, if the pattern is binding areas, or it's bound, or the pattern is bound by areas that have, um, data that's relevant through temple spatial patterns.
Like that, um, it seems that, that higher levels are helping to order the lower level patterns.
Because, if you shuffle the words in the pattern, it's, what it's saying is it's disrupted all but the lower level of, uh, you know, the zero order, uh, patterns.
So, it's like the lowest levels, there's no sense of, the first, it's like the first level of the neural network, of the 3D neural network.
There's no sense of the organization of high level patterns.
Um.
