=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0171y Graph Column Space Spectral
First recorded: 2021-10-01T23:48:26.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/f516c28d-f77a-4721-b1d1-236afcb2295f
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
I, I'm smiling because I used an insight, I used an insight from my work, from the book that I'm working on, which part of it covers the topic of the human brain, and I had an idea about what might be going wrong in someone else's brain,
and that gave me an insight into my own brain, because I took the same sort of like, I imagined a process of how that other person's brain was not performing correctly, and I used what I learned from that analysis.
I came out with a new conclusion. I'll call it, it's, it's weird, it's not that it's a new conclusion, it's that it's a conclusion from another point of view, that I had in another area.
So it's like taking, it's like saying, well I'm making this assumption about what's going on when people talk to each other.
I'm making an assumption about what's going on between different cortical columns.
I'm making an assumption about what's true, right?
In terms of the importance of my own ability to put together complex information, right?
All those ideas are related, and the relating factor is time, temporal synchronicity.
And at that moment, I knew how I was going to do this book.
I knew how I was going to accomplish this book. I knew how I was going to put it together.
I knew how I was going to put everything together, because I saw the human mind as a graph, a spectral graph, which means that you would have a concept of something appear in one part of the graph, and a concept of something appear in another part of the graph.
And then later on, when the graph learned how those two features were connected, it would bridge the two.
But although they're located apart by a distance, the brain's concept of space is also something that's learned.
There's not an innate knowledge of space.
And so I think that the space is something that's learned.
Like we learn what space is, but based upon observational patterns, right?
The brain puts together the concept of a space.
And we think that consciousness has to include space, or at least I thought it did.
I thought that space was part of it.
And I was really confused when I tried salvia divinorum, and I could no longer tell the difference between one thing and another.
And the same thing happened when I tried the DMT.
Do you see what I'm saying?
I saw the walls to my right and to my left.
They disappeared, and suddenly I was in a vast space.
Because my sense of space was completely changed with the salvia, with not being able to see the difference between any two objects.
So it's like, that would imply that the observer self is not fundamentally connected to the space, or empty space.
Because there's been a lot of, there was a lot of that preaching, like the, like, there's the content of the mind, and then there's the empty space that contains the content of the mind.
And there was, it just, it actually didn't occur to me that space itself, or space-time, was also the content of the mind, and not the mind itself.
And that means that it's content-less.
That the mind itself is content-less.
That means there's no, there's no, there's no, um, sense of space around you, when you're content-less.
Content-less means no sense of space.
It's, it's like that story, uh, that, that goes, like, people think that blind people are, are in darkness.
Like, when you're in a, like, when you're seeing persons in a lit room, and you turn off the light, you're in darkness.
You think that a blind person feels like they're in darkness.
But, they don't feel like they're in darkness.
There's just no sense of light or dark.
There's no sense of, they're not sensing, um, that they're missing something.
And by the same token, like, the actual content of the observer, um, that content isn't space-time.
The observer doesn't create space-time.
That's the, that's content in the site.
That's learned content.
And that's the key to understanding the graph, is that it's, there is no sense of space.
It is learned.
And it has to be that way.
Because it is a computer.
A computer does not have an innate sense of space.
Why would it?
And so, that's not, so it's not that they're, it's not that the oscillations are, um, conscious.
It's that they're frames.
They are frames.
In their consciousness.
In a whole brain consciousness.
They're frames in it.
But, but it's a pattern that we can reason.
It's, it's an invariant pattern learned by the whole brain, which is somewhat invariant of the cortical column.
Somewhat.
Although some cortical columns may have features that others do not.
So, the capabilities, but it's, but patterns that are invariant across cortical columns, that would mean that, like, you have the cortical column for sawdust and the cortical column for rain would be able to have, you could have a pattern in the rain that appeared in the sawdust.
And therefore, a pattern could transfer from one cortical column to another.
And ideally, you'd have, uh, if you're seeing rain and sawdust at the same time, then each one is represented, uh, at least by the patterned activity of a cortical column.
But either one of those columns could represent that data.
But the thing is that data is being represented with a certain bias towards some texture or material or concept or pattern trait.
I mean, if all neurons, I mean, if, like, if we're all, we, I, I say this because it's like, yeah, there are examples of when specific moments, see, that's the thing, is, it matters a lot.
And, like, there's been, like, there's been, a lot of neuroscience has been, okay, we're going to basically study this patient after they've had such and such, you know, surgery or they've had such and such injury.
We're going to study them for a certain amount of time, but that's not necessarily going to be a long-term study.
It's not necessarily going to be a rigorously done study.
And we may go back and say, okay, we need to do the study bigger with many more patients, but we just can't because you just, you can't make up injuries to study.
So, you got, so, in a lot of sense, a lot of science has been done, a lot of neuroscience has been done on what the, on the patients that doctors had access to.
And that fundamentally is an issue when we look back and ask ourselves, is the data that they found that was relevant to the patient's inability to speak words, for example.
Or inability to remember features of language, or inability to perceive the world in a coherent way.
Like, maybe, like, whatever, whatever the issue is, is it possible?
What I want to know is...
