=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0179y Meso scale
First recorded: 2021-09-30T00:31:13.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/83288a29-de0d-495c-b8ee-c1accc40701d
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So, you have to think about the brain as a macro-fractal, of what's happening on the micro-level.
So, when we're talking about the macro-dipole oscillation as being the, um, you see, that's the thing that you don't think about, is actually, so the brain has a quadruple, has a dipole on either side, right?
And it's a quadruple. But that quadruple also has an oscillation. Because an oscillation is, like, the rate at which the dipoles are firing.
There's electric dipoles, and there's magnetic dipoles. Now, both of those are oscillating.
But the same behavior of micro-oscillators, learning invariant patterns, applies its scale to dipoles.
So, there, so we have all this, like, collection of, in the cortical column, the column itself, as an oscillator, is going to collect all these patterns, and then share them in the default mode network.
But, the, but the way the neurons act in a column is how the columns act within the brain, within the neocortex, within the brain.
And, so that the dipoles, uh, the magnetic quadrupoles, on the brain scale, are going to integrate all the pattern, the high-level patterns expressed by the, um,
by cortical columns firing across multiple regions of the mind.
The whole brain is going to be taking turns listening to those columns in a macro-scale.
So, macroscale columns are learned by the whole brain.
But that can, but that can, because of the, um, the level of detail of the granularity of the phase-invariant sketchpad.
Oh, sorry, I'm not phase-invariant, the phase, um, uh, frequency sketchpad, uh, that exists.
So, so, so I'm basically arguing that basically that the, the dev, the dev sketchpad, um, for lack of a better phrase,
that basically we're giving, it's like, you have the neural, you have a neural network,
and what its, its outputs are, are read by another neural network that's also receiving inputs,
and they're just taking turns, like, saying, well, this is what I got, and this is what I got, this is what I got.
So it's like, it's like, there's a bunch of different, um, receptors that are all intaking patterns,
and they're taking turns sharing what each of them got.
It's like, it's like one neural network is comparing the results that they got to another.
So, like, imagine, like, uh, like, uh, a space in 3JS, it's all white, it's infinite, though.
X, Y, and Z.
And, you put something in there, and then that represents a line, and then another line,
and then you connect those two lines together, and then over somewhere else you put, like, a car,
and then over somewhere else you put, like, a wheel.
And then you draw a line that connects the wheel to the car, right?
So you start, so you've had, you had three separate piles.
The wheel was one pile, the car was one pile, and the two, and the three lines were another pile.
And then you have, like, a whole bunch of different, and you connect two of the piles together,
so you connect the wheel with the car together.
Okay, and then, but you have a whole bunch of other, like, separate things happening.
And so the height, so the idea here is that these things are lower-scale patterns that are beginning to be noticed,
and there's also, like, it's not just a low-scale pattern, but there's just, like, you can see the same pattern from multiple angles,
but it would initially appear as two different patterns, perhaps,
until you learn that they were actually the same pattern.
And then, so there'd be, like, this geometrical convergence,
where now the representation of the pattern from this angle is connected to the pattern from that angle.
And so something, so they both get triggered at the same time,
and the mind is, and the mind is going to see them as the same thing.
It's going to have a representation.
And the seer of that representation is the whole oscillator.
So the representation doesn't have to make physical sense,
as long as both parts of it fire at the same time,
and the oscillator knows how to combine them, right?
And how to connect two temporal-spatial sequences together.
And it's also because the patterns are invariant.
The patterns are invariant, so they can be moved.
So once you figure out that two things are actually one thing,
because the pattern was learned at a higher level, at the level of the oscillator,
and not necessarily at the level of the neuron,
even though it's like the neurons are learning lots and lots of patterns,
so that they can invariantly represent any of the incoming patterns
that have been previously learned by that cortical column.
It's interesting, the idea that some cortical columns could be overused,
but confined in space because of their proximity to other highly used cortical columns.
And so you might have situations where some of them are deteriorating,
or some of them are less performant than in cortical columns in other brains
that are able to expand on the amount of space that they can use,
expand on the amount of resources that they can draw upon from the human brain.
Like if the brain is able to reorganize itself and rethink how its own structure works.
But see, that's the essential principle is that the quadrupole of the macro,
so there's the macro quadrupole, there's the mesodipoles,
then there's the microdipoles, which is the neuron firing,
which is a representative of the different activity collected by the branches of the dendrite.
So you have a pattern detection at the dendrite level,
which is where one dendrite is recognizing a pattern.
And so we'd have to go in reverse, too, and say,
okay, well, if the neuron is recognizing patterns,
so the oscillator is recognizing patterns,
oscillator or column is recognizing patterns,
but the neuron is also recognizing patterns at the neuron level.
And so there's a scale to each,
so the smallest patterns will be detected at the neuron level.
And then when you chunk up to how small patterns,
and it's because it's like small patterns are more widely distributed,
and the large patterns connect lots of small patterns.
So larger patterns are chunked up
because what we're talking about at a large scale,
literally combine the stuff at a smaller scale.
And the stuff at a large scale literally combines the stuff at the medium and small scales,
or the meso and micro scales.
So that's why we're going to see, like,
I mean, it might, it probably makes sense,
it doesn't have to be this way,
but it probably makes sense that
the smallest scale patterns are learned by dendrites,
and then larger scale patterns will be learned by,
by dendrites, meaning neurons,
by dendrites, meaning neurons,
and then larger scale patterns would be learned by
cortical columns, meaning
oscillators,
meso-oscillators,
meso-sized oscillators.
And then the largest scale
concepts would be learned by
the whole brain
or the dipole activity
in contrast with the cortical columns
that are firing on the largest scale.
But also, you know,
now we're, on the large scale,
we're also involving a lower brain activity,
not just what's happening in the neocortex.
And then what sort of, like,
provoked me to,
sort of,
was the idea of ancient Egypt.
you know,
but,
you know,
