=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0172y Brain note taking Dipoles Movements
First recorded: 2021-10-01T21:09:50.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/7e4b14f5-2eb0-437f-8c9e-0c5df30a54f3
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Graph Spectrum. Graph Spectrum. Graph Spectral Theory. So Graph Spectral Theory is interesting because this was a discussion for analyzing MEG data as a spectral analysis of MEG data.
In consideration of the brain as a graph, uh, as a network graph. Applying like network and graph theory to MEG data to correlate the brain as a network and the data that is in a special graph that you would measure with MEG, which is the magnetic and electric.
It's the electromagnetic field generated by, it's the magnetic side of the dipole, magnetic dipole, maybe I'll explain this better.
But, you have, you have a dipole that's going to create electric, there's electric dipoles and there's magnetic dipoles.
Because, the output of MEG for some reason is capturing the magnetic dipole, not the electric dipole.
See, the electric dipole is what you get with EEG and that's distorted by the shape, uh, because it's electricity based.
Because, the skull and the tissue underneath the skull is going to distort the electricity based dipoles measured with EEG.
But, the magnetic dipoles measured with magnetoencephalography are not distorted at all by the skull or the brain tissue around the brain underneath the skull.
And, the mercy of that, the amazing features of that, I guess, are that you get a really nice, high level, non, uh, I guess, I don't know, like, would it diffuse?
Like, if you can't capture the detail at the neuronal level, with magnetoencephalography, would that be similar to applying, like, a diffusion, like, a diffuser filter over an image captured?
Like, putting a, putting a diffuser on an image, is that, is that, is there a similarity there?
But, the point is that, we're considering the mag, the, the full spectrum of the magnetoencephalography readout as a, as a graph based upon the brain being a network that creates each component of the magnetic spectrum in a different area.
Alright. It's like, imagine, so, imagine, so, a graph is like, what, you have, imagine you have, uh, a graph that you, you begin to, you, imagine you're drawing a graph.
It's a 3D graph, and you're gonna need a coordinate system.
So, you go with the typical x, y, and z coordinate system, and, uh, so, y is, uh, y plots, helps you plot the points that go on the y-axis, usually, uh, up or down, and the x, uh, can be left or right coordinates.
Everything on the left, through the left is, like, negative x, or, everything on the right is positive x, of an imaginary line.
So, in this case, we'll plot x, y, z through the center of the brain, and, we're gonna say that, like, if we think of the brains, if we think of the brain as a spatial structure, as a volume, that fits on top of this x, y, z graph, which is at the center.
And then, we think about, we, then, we also plot the data received from MEG, on top of this same structure.
So, yeah, so, okay, so, as far as I know, so far, spectrographers represents the magnetoencephalogram,
as plotted by the activity of the brain over the volume of the brain's, over the distribution of the brain's volume.
So, that means that, like, if you have brain activity that is, it's not that brain activity is increasing, it's that it's changing, uh, well, the rate might be increasing.
But, that's what it is. So, you have a rate of activity increase, or decrease, in certain regional areas.
And, uh, those, those are correlated with using your movements, and, as well as changing that, and with thoughts.
And, um, but, what comes out of that, though, is just this awesome phrase, which is, uh, graph, spectrograph theory.
Right? Right? So, what I'm positing is that with, uh, is that essentially what, uh, this rend-, what this rendering is, that we're calling experience.
We call it experience. But, if you slow it down, way, way down, if you could slow time down, okay?
Okay? Really, really, like, slow time down. So, all you see, so, we have one moment that's just frozen in time.
And, nothing really changes.
You're slowing time down so much that all you're considering is one moment frozen in time.
Okay? Okay. Is this working?
And, so, what you want to think about, now that you have a frozen moment in time,
is that whatever you're seeing, it's like a drawing.
And, it's like a drawing, it's like a map.
Right? Let's say that, let's say that, so right now, I'll tell you what I'm seeing.
So, I'm at, I'm at the mall while I'm recording this.
I'm at the Embarcadera Mall in San Francisco.
It's been mostly empty for the past year because of the pandemic.
But, I'm sitting on a, um, metal bench on the second level.
It's a three-level mall.
The mall is, uh, for the most part, an outdoor mall.
Uh, it's an outdoor, it's, I mean, it's, it's a mall that's exposed to the elements.
It's not, uh, there's no, um, central air conditioning because
they use the natural air of San Francisco.
It doesn't get super hot in San Francisco.
It doesn't really, it doesn't that often, it does not,
San Francisco does not often go above, uh, 80 degrees.
And, uh, I think 70 degrees is, is pretty warm here for us and what we're used to, okay?
But, let me put this back, put my backpack in.
Um, okay, but, okay, so we're gonna say that we've got this, we've got, considering one moment
of time, okay, and, uh, what's in front of me, so I'm sitting on a bench, okay,
and there's a bush, there's a plant, a large plant, that is, the plant is the size of, uh,
the size of a cow, okay, it's a big bush.
Now, if I wanted to, I could, I could get up and I could walk into it, right?
Um, or, I could walk next to it and my path would be clear.
But in one moment of time, in one frame of time, the organism, that is me,
knows that it could walk forward, and, and it would have a clear path in front.
Um, or it could walk to the, to the right, and it would be in a bush, it could walk into
the bush.
And, um, so that information would be valuable for, for, uh, for an organism that needs to
walk to find food, for example.
The information, uh, of which, where my path is clear.
And so, I, I, I'm, I'm saying this because, because we can see that, you know, plant, so
a plant doesn't have a brain.
And, and the idea is that animals have brains for highly coordinated movements that go far
beyond just like, you know, a, a plant has some movement, it might lean towards the sun
very slowly, for example, so it gets the best sunlight.
But it's not, it's not, uh, writing, it's not writing, uh, a check from a checkbook and,
and then pulling your check out and handing it to me.
There's not a high, that's not, that's the difference between highly coordinated movement
and simple movements.
Plants have extremely simple movements.
For, for human being, we have to, we do these really complex, highly coordinated movements.
Animals also do highly coordinated movements.
You know, a dog, a dog is an animal that has to consider a lot of, uh, variables every
day in order to find, find food or to be friends with a human who can give it food.
Right?
So, so, so, dogs are making very highly coordinated movements.
All animals are.
Yeah.
And that's, that's, that's, it's like the, the, the, the, um, the, the bigger the brain,
the more capable, is it, that it's an old thought.
It's like, if you had, the more, I mean, obviously there's, there's some brains that,
uh, that have, uh, been bigger than human brains, uh, animal brains.
Well, we're, well, you know, part of the animal kingdom, but, I'm just saying, you know,
there are elephants and dolphins and a whole bunch of animals with very large brains.
Not that many.
To be honest.
Not that many, but, but there's, there's a few.
And, um, you know, and we've seen, we've seen some intelligent things from, from animals
that have very small brains, comparatively.
Crows.
Very small brains doing very interesting things with, with tools that they made themselves
to get things.
Complex tools.
So, in that, in that context, the, the brains are for highly coordinated movements.
Whether you're a human, whether you're a human or you're part of a, one of the other
species in the animal kingdom, the, the thing is, that, uh, it would make sense in the context
of having a brain that's for high, that's for movements, for highly coordinated movements, for
you to have a sort of, um, note-taking ability that would tell you, once you've figured out
where something is, where it still is, sort of, it's called a memory system, a note-taking
memory system, where every frame of your consciousness is a note, and collectively, the frames of your
conscious constitute a memory system that is for an organism that has to do complex things
to maintain its life and, and, uh, long enough to, uh, either reproduce or to support, uh, other
members of its species when they reproduce.
That's what we have here.
Thank you.
Thank you.
