=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0178y Scientists previously thought of gamma waves as essential for consciousness Oscillator
First recorded: 2021-09-30T00:37:35.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/c1aef681-fc40-49b1-9c8d-68839e75584e
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So the other idea that I have is to look into how the wrinkling of the cortex might be scattering and focusing electricity or electromagnetism, or specifically magnetism.
How are the Soke and the Gokai refocusing the brain in terms of its electrical, acoustical, and magnetic moments?
How is the energy scattered and refocused?
You could say that oscillations are doing some directing of focusing.
And when neurons deviate from the oscillation, they're causing disturbances in that focus.
It changes that all the neurons in the oscillator are tracking.
Because that whole oscillator is pulling the deviating neuron back into an oscillating pattern.
That's the key reason why the oscillator is aware of deviating neural patterns.
Why knowledge is actually stored at a higher level in the oscillator.
But it's also a key reason why the largest dipoles of the brain are, in essence,
because it's the brain doing macroscopic loading on what individual sections of the brain are doing.
So the brain is learning patterns that become invariant to cortical columns, higher level patterns.
Because the whole brain is learning patterns.
So the brain can be like a dynamic player, like an orchestra player,
where every piece in the orchestra knows how the orchestra is supposed to be played,
and knows its own part in the orchestra.
But also can pay attention to the orchestra as it's being played,
so that it's ready to play its part at the right time.
So human beings have solved consciousness multiple times.
But not putting together the whole picture yet.
Pieces of it have been sort of discarded and lost and forgotten and put aside.
That's how science is.
But there's been, you know, with the rediscovery of 40 hertz frequencies in the late 60s, early 70s,
that had been, so gamma hertz had been discovered and then lost,
and then rediscovered in the late 60s, early 70s.
Actually just the late 60s.
And it was thought for a while, okay, well, maybe gamma frequencies are responsible for consciousness.
But there's not a, that was discovered.
But the whole picture of how it worked wasn't sort of put together at that point.
So that was kind of like, yeah, that's an idea, but there's a lot of like,
still like we don't understand what that means, though.
Yeah, maybe.
But yeah, so this is like already speculated.
And then, like, like, of course, um, there's, the idea's been revisited.
But I'm, in this book I'm arguing, it's actually right.
And it's right, but here's the rest of the story.
I know, I know I have him.
But I heard from it, so to everybody's story.
And it's the story.
Yeah.
The story.
Because I feel it's very rare.
Like, have a story.
So, I don't know.
I'm looking at all this等,
