=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0181y Brain Computer Interface Ai
First recorded: 2021-09-28T02:18:44.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/764d6de8-d088-4851-9d84-c135a5596537
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Right, so one of the major points for the group that I, for the book that I wanted to end on was that, was about Neuralink's mission to unite the brain with artificial intelligence.
It's, it's that, it's that in terms of, you know, reading and writing to the human brain, um, connecting, when it comes to a brain-computer interface, the brain-computer interface is the bridge between the, um, between the brain and the computer, and the, and the computer is where the AI would, program would run.
And, so we're, we're talking about, okay, the, what is the bridge between, once we have, once we have figured out the bridge between the brain and the computer, uh, how does the, uh, human brain actually interact with AI?
Um, and, um, so, where I'm going with that is that, um, from a macroscope, from, from, from a macroscopic perspective, we zoom out.
For a second, the whole point of, the whole point of, a, a brain-computer interface is, on some level, a user interface.
Right? Um, it's, it's, it's, in some level, it's, it's a way for, human beings are trying to figure out a new pathway, uh, to use a tool, the tool is a computer, to accomplish what, uh, what they want, whatever they want.
So, it's, like, how do we use a tool in a new way?
So, every time I improve the, the user interface of, of a tool, like, a computer, like, so, we had computers, and, but, we didn't have graphical user interfaces at first.
We had just, you know, just, uh, a command line, right?
And you could run a program, but then we had the graphical user interfaces, and then we had, at some point, we had virtual reality.
We had 3D, uh, graphical user interfaces.
Um, and, uh, so, you know, there's, there's many other technologies that, that, that come along with it.
It's, it's, it's, it's, well, when we, how, how are we gonna interact with AI in an intuitive way?
In a way that, that makes sense to our brains?
And I think the answer is to interact with, with, uh, to, to adhere to, at least, you know, in the bridge to interacting with AI, it might be about, uh, taking what's familiar and enhancing that.
So, taking the virtual reality, the augmented reality, everything we do in two dimensions, and, um, and making that part of the user interface with AI.
So, that would be, like, you know, you go to, when you want to, if you want to ask a question, you know, you, you pop up Siri, and you ask, and you say, hey Siri, can you get this thing?
Or, hey Google, can you get this thing?
That's, that, that is one way you can, you can summon AI for a conversation.
And so, I'm talking about, yeah, there, there's, uh, you know, building a user interface that makes sense to your brain for how you interact with AI.
So, it's more of a, maybe, perhaps, uh, sort of like a 3D social experience, uh, or an interactive experience, or a game-like experience.
Some sort of analogy that gets your mind used to interfacing with AI in a conscious way.
So you're, so you're, um, so your awareness is engaged in sort of, uh, creating a map of, of, um, the, the, the many different ways that you'll be able to, uh, communicate with AI and also, um, benefit from, from AI.
Yeah, so there's, so there is this sort of, you know, I think ultimately it's, it's, um, it can be like a conversation that you have with words, or with just thinking about words.
Or maybe even a conversation about pictures.
Or maybe you, you think about pictures, and you summon pictures, but you have the computer save certain kinds of pictures, and you express your preferences.
And you build a sort of visual graph, and you can combine that with language and sounds, and it's like your, it's like your thoughts begin a sort of, it's like you can use your thoughts to navigate how you want to develop this multi-sensory graph that you are interfacing with.
And then, um, and then along the way, you know, you can, you should be able to use, you know, natural language processing to, to, uh, run certain kinds of computer programs, and, and, uh, you know, there's lots of different AI programs.
You can look for different connections between the concepts that you're summoning, different kinds of visualizations, um, you can ask the AI to, to write a story about, about the, the things that you're summoning.
So these are just beginning to play with, like, well, how, how do I, as a developer, say, say I have a developer, and we have these technologies, and they exist, and I have the ability to connect AI directly to your brain, but how will you intuit how to use that?
How will people use that in practice?
What is, what is going to be the way that you make sense of that?
And so, from a design standpoint, it's like, okay, what does, what does the, first of all, what does the, you know, how, what are all the properties of the application, uh, user interface, right?
And, and what can it do?
And, and, um, and how can we make it intuitive or, you know, make a program so people can learn how to use it?
And how can we make it useful, uh, so that the, the, the people really feel like they are benefiting from using this, uh, this new kind of technology?
And, and so, the thing is, like, with Matt, with Matt Kodak, like, I was looking at what, what his company is hiring for in a recent video, and it does seem like, you know, if he's moving towards, you know, I, I think, maybe, maybe he got really excited about, while he was working at Nurel, I think, maybe he got really excited about what he saw happening.
With, with, with, um, with Optogenetics, and his new company is thinking, okay, well, we're going to, we're, you know, it's, it's actually a more straightforward path to Neuralink, to just genetically engineer the human mind, to be receptive to Optogenetic, uh, sensors and, uh, sensors and transmitters.
Right, with Optogenetics, we have fine brain control over the link between the brain and the computer.
So, we'll just do a, a localized genetic modification.
So, he's like, hiring people for, we do the CRISPR kit thing, and, and, and, and, that's what, that's what it's come to.
It's like, yeah, we're going to actually, um, make, we're actually going to, like, build a little brain for, uh, for you, out of your tissue.
That makes it possible to connect you to the computer.
So, instead of, like, so instead of connecting the computer to you with Neuralink, where we stick wires in you, we're going to actually modify your genes, and we're going to make a better device.
A device that's not going to ever get old, it's just going to be like, yeah, you just, you know, at some point, like, we'll modify your genes so that you have a brain port.
Or, that's made out of your own tissue, but it responds to light, and that's going to be your, your brain chip, your interface.
And so, we plug the computer chip right there, and it interfaces with your nervous system.
But, you know, that's just one way of doing it.
So, I mean, I, I think that, you know, there's some skepticism from, from ODAC.
You know, it's like, there's, it's, it's what I think, it's really is, there's just, the field of optogenetics is too exciting.
I, that I just think that's where he has to be going.
But, um, and, and now on the other hand, there's, there's the whole mission from, uh, Mary Lou Jepsen in the open water,
functional nerve-red spectroscopy, and ultrasound, and holography.
That is the alternative, sort of, pathway that I think we're going to get to a non-invasive brain-computer interface.
But doing something like optogenetics for human beings, like actually changing DNA, that is far-fetched, but it's not too far-fetched.
Because, um, because if the knowledge, if the knowledge, you know, we, we have the ability, the ability to, you know,
AI was used to, to basically, uh, predict most of the, uh, approaching faults of human beings.
So we have a situation where, um, uh, human beings are, what I'm saying is like, is, it's like,
we're getting to a point where I, I think it, it, it, a modification, like a genetic modification,
can be done safely, can be done permanently, and it could be, have far better results than, than, um,
than inserting a piece of metal into the human body.
And, I think that science has advanced to the point where this, uh, this is feasible,
and it's going to be, it's going to be safe.
It's going to be effective.
It's going to be the right solution for a, for a modern era, for some people.
For some people.
Right?
It, it, it, it, it's not, it's not, it won't be the case that, that everyone will go and get
genetically modified, some, you know, for, for optogenetics.
At least, at least it may not be in the, in the beginning.
Um, I don't know, it could be very, it could be crazy popular in the, in the future.
Maybe, maybe, uh, the masses will be doing it, but, um, but there, but I think there,
I really do believe there'll be a non-invasive path with, with light imaging.
Because, you know, contrary to what Max codex is, the neuron does expand when, um, when it
fires, and so therefore it should be viewable with light at great distances.
To, to infrared light.
As long as you can reverse the refraction of light.
As long as the holography of, of, of, uh, works.
Uh, the holography of, of infrared light in the brain works.
As long as you can reverse that refraction, then, uh, then yeah, you can, you can get
really amazing images that can identify neuron-inspiring in real time.
So, it's not like the, it's not like, um, the optogenetics path is going to be the only
path to stimulating and reading brain.
Um, but it is an, it's going to be, I think, exciting in terms of, it'll be an exciting
era in terms of, like, what we can learn with optogenetics, through optogenetics simulation,
in terms of, like, what scientists can learn.
Uh, especially on the medical side of treating patients who have, you know, extreme medical
conditions, uh, or, uh, or extreme, uh, conditions that need, that need, uh, attention from medical
professionals, so, um, yeah, so there, I think there's hope, I think there's a place
for it, but it's very interesting, at that, that's sort of what he's doing.
