=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0192z Oscillation is just for the canvas of consciousness
First recorded: 2021-09-17T18:47:36.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/07d43ba5-1b67-4c3a-a752-96f8b70a702f
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
This is Neuron Cluster No. 1 to Neuron Cluster No. 2. I'm looking to fly the following route. I'm just, with my drone, just requesting approval to fly this route. Here it is. GPS coordinates. Shows a path from a starting point, millimeter by millimeter, through a space and a certain time interval in which the flight is expected to take place.
I do not anticipate running into any other aircraft in this vicinity. We have received your request for this flight plan at this time. This is the decentralized database of drone flight plans.
We can confirm that there are no other intersecting flight plans at this time that have been registered with the same GPS coordinates as existed in your flight plan.
And so then, basically, I take every major point of the GPS map. The most distal, the most vestal, the most up, the most down, and all of the interesting curves in between.
The highs and lows. The highs and lows. The peaks and waves.
And so, capture some sort of reduced representation of that. And use that representation to encode a...
It's like encoding a tune into a generic piano.
It's like, let's say you have a generic piano key that can sound like anything.
It's a generic piano key, but it can sound like anything, because it has such a huge range.
It can also look like anything. So it can sound like anything, or it can look like anything.
And it does the visual the same way it does the audio.
Like, it's basically like a series of temporally staged frequencies overlapping.
But it does audio, which is like, audio is like, um...
I mean, it does video, but it does video like a sort of 3D sound.
Like, it's a higher dimensional sound entity.
Still consisting of temporal spatial patterns.
But the density, the complexity of those patterns is multiplied.
And, um, yeah, so that's part of what I'm proposing, is that this visual sound that the brain makes
that can also merge with, like, regular sound.
So the visual sound merges with the regular sound so you hear audio and video together
when you experience reality, right?
And, um, because they blend together because they're basically made from the same form.
They're compatible in terms of being on different frequencies, but they can also interlace
into the same representation.
And so we have, like, lots of...
What I'm saying is, like, we have lots of micro-representations that are themselves
representations in terms of frequencies.
But then these combine together with meso-representations and meso-frequencies.
But all of the micro and meso-representations that are in the frequencies are basically being summoned.
Like, the micro and the macro are being summoned at the same time.
It's like having the level of detail machine.
But you're having, like, okay, we're going to summon part of your brain to be the macro-representation,
part of the brain to be the meso-representation, part of the brain to be the micro-representation.
And we're going to summon all of them at the same time.
Or at least at a fast enough rate that they can all blend together and seem like they're
happening at the same time.
Like, basically, like, imagine if you...
They interlace the frames of sound with video, right?
You could interlace them so that they don't appear at the same time.
And the effect might be as if they were overlaid instead of interlaced.
You might not notice that they're interlaced.
If it's fast enough.
Yeah, so we're talking about etching...
So we're talking about etching a visual sound, a multi-sensory cloud of multiple levels of detail.
Right?
So we have low levels of detail in the smallest hertz.
And we have larger levels of detail.
More basic levels of detail in the larger hertz.
But it's interesting that...
I mean, at some point, an oscillation is just a...
It's just for the canvas of consciousness.
