=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0194y Fires Neuron Oscillation
First recorded: 2021-09-17T18:41:14.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/e66f4c56-9fa7-41da-bdeb-a946d5581029
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
There's this paper called the zero-point field, and they talk about how the brain's consciousness could be etched inside a zero-point field.
And it's an interesting idea, but what in the brain could be causing a zero-point field?
And then I thought, well, actually, maybe, what if a tonic oscillation of an oscillatory circuit in the brain, of oscillatory circuits, of oscillations, of synchronicity between multiple circuits, or synchronicity between the neurons in any given circuit, or an alternating oscillation, right?
Like, what is it about the, um, the, uh, because there's many different levels of oscillation that interact with other oscillations.
Like, the super chiasmatic nucleus is 20 million, the super chiasmatic nucleus is 20 million neurons that oscillate towards the center of your brain.
And, uh, this, these oscillations, they don't all combine, but they have, uh, a force that's applied to, uh, one another.
They, um, they sort of orbit, they sort of orbit one another, and they're subject to the forces of physics.
But what if those tonic oscillations were creating a zero-point field?
And then the phasic oscillations would etch that field.
They'd draw shapes in that field.
And that would render consciousness.
That would be how the canvas of common consciousness was worked, worked out.
And then whatever they etched into this zero-point field would be detected as any, as any neuron that fires phasically is going to, um,
um, is going to, uh, yeah, that's interesting.
So, so, this is a question of, like, well, what is the tonic oscillation, like, action potential?
What is the tonic oscillation action potential, like, compared to the phasic action potential?
Right?
Is the, does the phasic action potential have a greater amplitude and a lower frequency, or a higher frequency and a lower amplitude?
Is it, like, very fast but very thin?
Or is it very broad but very powerful?
And very slow.
Very broad, yeah, broad and, think of it as broad and slow, or fast and thin.
And so, yeah, the slower tonic oscillation is sort of, like, resetting the whole neighborhood.
Right?
That's the, that's how coordinated activity happens.
That's how the group oscillation happens.
And that is the zero-point field.
That slow, high amplitude oscillation is zero-point field.
And then what's etched into that are, like, when a neuron, like, when a neuron, like, really fires out of sync, it doesn't just fire out of sync.
It fires at a phasic rate.
That's when it shoots up.
It fires at a specific rate.
And there's, there's different rate options.
Like, it could fire at, you know, anywhere between 0.02 hertz and 600 hertz.
Right?
So, it could fire at any of those ranges.
But, but actually, I mean, I guess in theory, yeah, depending on, but it has this, it's not like this is, like, what I think is, yeah, is that once a neuron gets set doing a certain thing, it's, like, learned a pattern.
And it just sort of sticks to that pattern and doesn't sort of, like, it's kind of like having, like, specialized brain areas.
Right?
Where they get used to processing a certain kind of signal.
So, that you have the brain modifying its circuitry.
Let's see.
Modifying its circuitry.
But it's, it's modifying the, let's say it's modifying what the zero-point field represents, perhaps.
Yeah, that makes sense.
But no, no, no, no, wait.
Okay, well, yeah, that could be part of it.
It's really complicated.
But it's also changing what the, no, no, I think it is really more about the etching.
It's more about, because the etching, the etching, okay, so the etching of a neuron is the configuration of a neuron, the configuration that a neuron takes that represents a certain pattern that it has been, it has learned.
Okay?
Okay.
So, it learns new patterns, and it forms new branches when new patterns, when it learns new patterns.
So, over time, it learns more complex patterns.
But to sort of, like, map all the complexities of all of its patterns, it grows more dendritic branches.
And earlier, I thought, well, what if the, what if I gave the book out for free, like, shareware?
But if you want to, if you want to own an authentic copy of this book, then you can buy an NFT, which will certify, which will certify that the copy that you own, which is identical to every other copy, is a copy that you actually bought and paid for.
Like, that's what you'll get, is you get a, the receipt proves that you were willing to trade money for this book.
And then whether you, like, are embarrassed by that, or, like, really, or just really, like, proud.
What if you're just, like, really proud to be a reader and owner of this book?
That's, that's what I'm going for, is, you know, I'm like, yeah, if you read this book, like, you're, I know you're badass.
Because this book is about all the cool stuff.
So, anyway, I would sell the book by, you know, they make an, they buy an NFT of the book.
Which is proof that the book, that the copy they own, is something that they paid for.
Of course, they can feel honored to own a copy of the first edition.
And there will only be, like, 1,000 copies of the first edition.
So, they're just going to go up in value.
Yeah.
That's it.
If you own one of the first 1,000 copies of the first edition.
And they're just going to go up in value.
You train different areas of your brain to oscillate with different patterns.
Because they take up different regions of space.
The neurons that fire together, they have a, they have a tonic pattern that's represented.
Okay.
And, um, that is distinct enough to the rest of the large-scale atomic firing patterns.
So that, um, that becomes, like, they all know who fired when someone fires.
Because they've all mapped for themselves when they're going to fire after that neuron fires.
And the other neurons fire.
They're all, like, predicting, like, okay, well, all these people fire a lot together.
Which means that I'm going to fire with them.
Right?
That's an oscillation.
They all fire together.
So I'm listening to the whole herd.
I know when everyone's going to fire.
Oh.
So, then there's, like, this, really, this burst that causes, like, the neuron to expand.
Okay.
And that creates, like, a sonic wave.
And now all the neurons feel that burst.
They all feel that sonic wave.
It feels its own action potential.
Because the action potential is, like, this disruptive seismic event, like an earthquake.
But it's, like, an earthquake where the Earth itself is sensitive to the change that was made.
Because it affects the distribution of the physical shape of the neuron.
And now we're just creating a new protein synthesis, changing its shape.
Right?
The protein structure contains the shape of the neuron.
And when the protein structure is, when the protein structure is inhibited, when it's, like, when a memory is retrieved, right?
That shape is, um, sort of, like, it's, it's, it's rebuilt.
It's built based upon the predictions, I guess.
So, the shape is, like, a long-term memory is, like, this, the protein structure is, like, the dendrites building a new, adding a new protein to the structure to support the changes in, in the dendritic branching.
So, the new branches, the new dendritic branching happens, and that means that the, um, the shape of the neuron has changed.
And now it's representing a different pattern.
And what it's representing is the shape of the dendritic branching in long-term, in terms of long-term memory.
And so, what will happen is that it will listen for when it's going to fire, and eighth prediction is the way the dendrites are connected, based upon where the energy pulse is going to come from.
The energy is, like, where the food is coming from.
Oh, the food is, like, okay, so imagine you're Pac-Man, right?
And up ahead is, like, the glowing ball, and you're moving towards the glowing ball, right?
That's what you want to eat it.
You want to eat all the dots, and you want to eat the big glowing ball.
So, Pac-Man is, like, okay, I'm moving in the direction of the light, right?
It's moving towards the energy.
But that just means it's, like, moving on an axis.
And the axis is not, it's, like, not Pac-Man's, um, direction, but it's, like, the direction as indicated by the connections that one dendrite has.
It's two other neurons, so that a dendrite and a three-neural network has to point in every possible direction, like, um, you know, both up and down, left and right, back and forth.
Six degrees of, of, um, it's, it's, it's a six-axis, uh, sort of, um, system where, you know, every, uh, every direction is the very direction.
And, um, so dendrites are constantly, like, the long-term memory is, like, growth of new proteins that help construct new dendritic branches, as old ones are, like, kind of erased.
And so, like, there's, um, there's, like, new protein that the brain is consuming all the time that's allowing the, um, the development of really great ideas.
Right?
And so, like, where's, like, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what.
Thank you.
