=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0199y Dot matrix reality Photons Dogs
First recorded: 2021-08-26T00:19:49.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/15f1a95b-0cd9-4e24-97d4-eed05fd86d95
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So my argument for self-awareness was that if you point a dog's head at, just imagine, go into a third person, get out of your own head for a moment, and it's going to be in the book.
Just look at this, just imagine how an organism has to learn its surroundings.
It has to learn basically a pattern of dots that are coming to, that are, you know, photons bouncing off of its eyes and sending signals into the brain.
So when the photon actually hits the eyes, there's a protein that gets flipped, it gets bumped by the photon.
That creates an electrical signal.
And then the brain has to turn these electrical signals, like collecting a bunch of dots, into a pattern that it recognizes.
And then, so a dog can recognize, eventually, a pattern of dots that represents coconut water, a bottle of coconut water on the floor, or a desk, or a floor.
And then, you know, and so the dog's world is a bunch of dots that it has learned all over the place, a bunch of patterns it's learned.
And when you get to, like, the position where someone's in a yoga class or meditation class, and they're expanding their awareness, they're expanding their consciousness,
I think of it as adding additional thoughts or additional perspective to your existing collection of dots that you use to make up the representations of yourself from your hand,
to the world that you're in, to the world that you're in, to the different emotional and spiritual forces that you're sensing within your electromagnetic body, you know.
But I think of it as you're expanding your context.
And so the awareness, the expansion of awareness within a human being to an enlightened being is this expansion of information context or how the different dots fit together or how they are seen from other perspectives that you hadn't reached yet in the terms of your,
in the development of your total dot matrix that your brain is collecting data from the universe from.
I think that is very fair.
