=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0229y Pattern Threshold
First recorded: 2021-08-07T14:31:58.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/9ca0cad7-7ad5-4d9e-b0fb-928888d205a9
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Okay, so let's go from, uh, the neurons producing notes, or waves, solitons, wave patterns, soliton waves, soliton waves, soliton waves, soliton waves, soliton waves.
The, uh, Google can't seem to recognize the word soliton. It's spelled S-O-L-I-T-O-N. S-O-L-I-T-O-N, soliton wave.
There you go, soliton wave. Soliton wave. No, soliton wave. Soliton wave.
Why is it changing soliton to solution? Soliton, wave. Silicon, solution, soliton, soliton, soliton, soliton, soliton, soliton, soliton.
Um, it's very interesting to see all the different ways that the voice recording machine is interpreting the words that I'm saying.
The difference would be as if it was playing back the words sequence that I learned through itself, because that is essentially like, that's what makes consciousness conscious.
Because I'm not just receiving the pattern, but I'm playing it back to myself.
I'm not just seeing what I'm seeing, but my mind is creating a representation of what's being seen.
And the evidence of that is like, yeah, you know, your eyes are covered in blood vessels, but you don't see blood vessels when you look out of your eyes.
There's actually, if you, if you, uh, there is a, there's a blind spot in each of your eyes.
And if you hold up the, uh, hold up a pencil at just the right distance and just the right angle, you can see, you can put, you can position the eraser, uh, over the blind spot of your eye.
And you can notice the eraser disappear when it's covering the area of the blind spot that you literally can't see in a part of your eye.
Your eye doesn't capture everything that's in front of it, but your eye moves around a lot and it's able to construct the, uh, entire picture of what's around you.
By taking the pieces, but integrating pieces into a coherent picture.
And it would do that.
It's, it's, it's the, the goal is not to figure out, it's sort of like a sequence of spatial, it's a, it's a sequence of, no, no, it's, it's, it's learning a sequence of spatial maps of frequencies.
That are themselves different.
Why did I say coincidence patterns?
I did say coincidence patterns.
Um, coincidence pattern happen.
The temporal or spatial, or temporal, spatial, and phasic coincidence pattern happen.
It's, it's, it's, yeah, or did a, um, did a pattern happen?
Actually, it's not just a coincidence, it's a bit of a pattern.
Well, I mean, at the root of it, it's just a coincidence.
But, it really is about the pattern.
Now, let's say that you have a pattern that's detected.
It's just the edge of a pattern, right?
Just a hint of a pattern.
All right, well, you are, even with a really small amount of information, you're making, um, phase, it has a spatial and temporal, uh, property.
Because if it, because if a neuron fires at a sequence, then it has a spatial location relative to the oscillation, it gets, so that means that it gets, um, it can be recognized in a spatial way as contributing to a spatial pattern or something else.
So, in that sense, it's like, yeah, it's like, it is like, um, you have a wave with three types of properties.
It's, uh, and those could be frequency, time, mean, or space.
Frequency?
Timing.
And, and space.
Uh, frequency, I mean, like, the phase, uh, is, uh, frequency at a micro-scale, like, hertz?
Like, what is a regular frequency?
Okay.
And then, the timing is when it's going to, uh, not only deviate.
It's not only going to deviate, but it is going to, it's not only going to deviate in terms of frequency, but it's also going to deviate in terms of timing and space.
All at the same time, like, any change in any one of these is going to result in a change in, in the others.
But, uh, look on the macro-scale, right?
You see lots of neurons that are making lots of solitin waves, each with, um, a number.
So, it's like, each one has a prediction property.
Right?
X, Y, and Z.
Where the X is the frequency.
The Y is the timing.
Uh, the Y is, um, sequence timing.
So, there's a frequency, there's a sequence time, and then there's, um, a spatial pattern.
Uh, and all of these, and all three of these properties are sort of tied together in an interesting way.
They're all detected by, each of, by dendrites near and far away.
They're all producing patterns that have spatial, uh, spatial distribution, uh, and they have, uh, patterns that have a hertz, and patterns that have a time, and hertz has, it's H-E-R-T-Z hertz.
Just watching Google Transcript, fuck up.
Uh, h-E-R-T-Z hertz, hertz, hertz, hertz, hertz, hertz.
Hertz. Hertz. Hertz. Hertz. Hertz. Hertz. Hertz. It's the Hertz. Heads. It's Heads. I'm just, I'm really trying to say H-E-R-T-Z. Hertz. Or H-Z. Heads. It's the heads. H-Z. H-Z. Not heads. Heads. Whatever.
Now, the reason I said waves. So, the action potential has a wave form, right? The shape that's determined by an amplitude and a duration. So, it has an amplitude and a duration. No, wait a second. It has a frequency, an amplitude, and a duration.
The amplitude, but they're all tied together. The duration, it carries the amplitude, right?
But there's the, I guess there's the, maybe there's the, like, the gate, synaptic gate opening.
I don't know. I don't know. Like, how much variation could there be in the cycle?
Well, when does, when do the gates open? And when do they close?
There is one thing that opens the gates. There's something else that closes the gates.
But the thing that opens the gates, does that have a different magnitude or spatial pattern?
And the thing that closes the gates, right?
So, right, we talked about the gradient concentration being something that could close the gates faster or more slowly of potassium, right?
But it remains to be seen. Well, what are the other factors there that could be opening or closing the gates more slowly?
So, um, I'm looking for an expert on dendritic computation to talk next week.
Um, and expert on dendritic computation.
And, so, what I'm saying is, like, okay, so what if, okay, so what I'm thinking is, like, okay, once the soma bursts,
it seems like that's a very regular process. Like, whatever it takes to trigger the gates to open, once it opens, that's going to be, like,
this, it's going to be, like, the action potential, I think, is going to open pretty much the same way each time.
And, including in between each time, I think.
Because it's, like, it's, like, at that point, it's, like, that is the firing thing.
Now, I don't know, but I don't know, right?
Because it could be, like, what if, okay, so, it's, like, okay, so we say, well, there's a threshold.
It has to reach a threshold before fires.
Well, what happens if the threshold goes way over?
Because that's what's interesting, in deep learning, there is a, sort of, like, it's, it's, um, it's, like, either, uh, it's, there's an either-or
for whether the threshold has been met.
But, there is a, there's a vector that represents, uh, sort of, like, how far above the threshold has gone.
So, the vector represents a threshold that has gone higher, um, and there is a question there.
So, is that, is it possible that if a threshold is, is met in a, in a way that is much higher, would that, um,
um, with that threshold, it's, it's, like, see, this is what I'm thinking, it's, like, okay, so there's the sodium, uh, gradient, uh, gradient, and there's the potassium gradient concentration.
And if the sodium concentration is sufficiently greater than the, uh, uh, no, no, no, what I'm saying is, like, if the, if the dendritic computation
is significantly greater, the dendritic computation that results in, in a soma, in a soma explosion, is significantly greater than what, than the minimum that it would take to cause the soma to explode.
So, the question is, is there somehow, is that higher amount going to be conveyed through the action potential in terms of, uh, in terms of having a greater spike in a shorter duration?
You see what I'm saying? It's, like, see, the potassium, well, the delay of the potassium channels will delay when the, the spike stops.
But if the spike is high enough, then, the idea here is that, yeah, I'm getting fuzzy on the details.
I'm getting fuzzy on the details.
