=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0236y Oscillator Neurons Milliseconds
First recorded: 2021-08-02T21:12:56.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/fcd76527-4520-413b-9b8f-2a3b82670f34
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
When you think about, like, okay, let's say, like, well, wait a second, what is the difference between a television and a human being? What's the difference between a television and a human being? Right, what if the television was, what if every pixel was learning every, the, the, the, uh, when it was going to fire, right?
So what if, what if every pixel is learning when it's going to fire? So it's learning visually everything that comes through the television. Okay. But then it's like, okay, so every pixel is learning when it's going to fire. And then you have a lot of pixels that are learning to, let's say that you, you, you chain link a lot of pixels together.
So it's not just the X and the Y coordinates, but it's also, uh, the Z coordinates. So the Z coordinate pixel. So it's like, imagine you have a TV screen. That's just not, it's not just the screen itself, but it's layers and layers of, of pixels.
So you have a TV screen and behind that is another TV screen and behind that is another TV screen and behind that is another TV screen until you have as many pixels in depth as you have horizontally and vertically.
So it's like a cube instead of like a TV screen, the TV cube, right? And every pixel in this TV cube is learning, uh, when it's going to fire. It's going to learn to say, oh, I see that.
All these other pixels are lining up. So I think I'm going to fire soon. And then, uh, at some point, like every time I see the word bike,
I'm lighting up. I know I'm going to fire. Every time I see wheels, I know I'm going to fire. So I know that the word bike and the pixels associated with wheels
are associated because they keep happening together in some, in some temporal, spatial, and phasic coincidence.
Okay. And then, and then like, even if there is no, like at some point, like, even if they're like,
even if there's a dissonance between the temporal, phasic and, and, uh, spatial coincidence,
even if there's a dissonance, it would be possible for me to recognize a bicycle after a certain amount of time
with this, uh, with this, uh, if all I had was a, uh, a cube, a television cube. Okay.
Okay. That learned. Okay. But then, but then at this point, I'm only representing visual information
that could include words, that can include words, right? That, or the coincidence of words, uh,
can be connected to the, to the coincidence of the, of the object, of an object. The coincidence of words
can be connected to the coincidence of an object, right? So I, I can make those connections. So then I,
so at that's, at this point, I have like a sort of visual language memory, like a visual language.
It's like language, visual, the visual component of language and the, in the pixels. Okay. What I,
what, what comes next are associations to other modalities. What's the, another modality would be
like hearing audio. Uh, if I can hear, if I can hear what's going, what's happening, then. Okay.
So let's get back to, okay. So, but what is the observer? So the observer, so this is the, this is,
this is the magic here. The observer is this. You have a temporal, you have a temporal oscillation
in the super chiasmatic and super chiasmatic nucleus. That's 20 million neurons. But a lot of the
brain has these big groups of, of neurons oscillating. That I'm going to argue is the observer.
And what's being observed are the different, are the differentials that, that, that happen to
individual neurons in the observer, in the oscillator. So that the differential, right? So like when
something, so when something particular, like I see a red shirt, okay, red shirt, I see a red
shirt across the street. So I have all these neurons that are going to fire for, to, to light up the
concept of red shirt in my conscious thought space. Okay. Right. And I have all these, all these,
what happens is they're all firing and they're all going to cause a bunch of normally oscillating
temporal, uh, uh, oscillators to, to fire out of the normal sequence. A bunch of, a bunch of
micro neurons. So like all the, see when you have a neural oscillator, you have a lot of neurons that
are all oscillating together. And when you have, uh, something significant happening, like a red
t-shirt, then what happens is you're going to get to a point where, uh, you're causing a disturbance
from the norm in the oscillation of a sack of oscillating cells. And some of those cells are going to have
their temporal firing patterns, uh, become misaligned with the group. And that causes all the neurons in
that group to recognize that pattern because the act of recognizing that, because they're all physically
altered by that pattern. Because what happens is the group has to pull that, the, the divergent
oscillator neuron back into equilibrium as a whole. So if the group is oscillating at like 20,000,
if the group of neurons is operating at, uh, let's say it's 20, let's say the group's neurons is
oscillating at 20 hertz. Okay. And then you have, what you have is you have a red shirt and the red
shirt causes a small number of neurons to have an oscillation deviation of approximately three
milliseconds. So they become three milliseconds out of sync with the oscillating hole. Now, uh, because the
oscillator has to, there has to be an equilibrium between the neurons that, that were two or three
milliseconds out of sync with the normal oscillation and the normal oscillation. So what happens is that
these two different oscillating energies, when you have an oscillator, they have to combine. And the act
of them combining is causing the whole network as a whole to recognize an individual event, because the act
of, of, of changing your electrodynamics to match the new, the new minute change in the oscillation
frequency, because it is a minute change. This is what I'm arguing. So I'm arguing that when an oscillating,
when an oscillator gets out of sync, right, because of a trigger, the whole oscillator brings it into
sync again, but the, the, the journey. So what I'm saying is like, in order for that to come in sync,
you have to have energy in the higher oscillator that's dripping down into the lower oscillator,
I think. So I think it's going to be like, well, instead of, instead of, it's going to be like 20.
And so let's see, all the neurons are oscillating at like 20 hertz. Well, then if you have one that
goes up by three milliseconds, it's, it becomes out of alignment by a matter of milliseconds, you
know, five milliseconds, 10 milliseconds, two milliseconds, whatever it becomes out of alignment
with the oscillator. What I think I'm going to argue is that maybe the oscillator goes from a 20 hertz
oscillator to a 19.9997 oscillator, and that the total oscillation is decreased or increased
by the activity of individuals gradually in a very granular scale. So what's happening is you're
getting an equilibrium, I think, between the micro oscillators and the macro oscillators,
or there's an, there's an equilibrium that's being sought, but that would change, that would
change in minute way. It's a total oscillating pattern. But whether it does or it doesn't,
maybe everything gets back to 20 hertz. Okay. Maybe it doesn't change that much. It doesn't
really have to change because just the fact that you have, you have something, it's like,
it's going to be like, it's going to feel like there's a magnet, right, that's exerting an
electromagnetic force on the things around it. That's what it's going to feel like for the
oscillator. So the oscillator knows, there's a feeling, there's a feeling that is, is, so you have this
regular oscillator that is exerting an electromagnetic regulatory pattern that's observable. And if that
oscillator's frequency changes, that's going to be observable. The neural network is going to be
able to observe the change in the frequencies of oscillators. And if that neural network was
conscious, you'd call it feelings.
