=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0233y Dendrites Timeline Neuron
First recorded: 2021-08-06T06:33:48.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/1bf2585b-4a2b-4562-9c13-e2192a611c6f
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Okay, I want to record a conversation with Eva's husband-boyfriend, and so I need to send him an email. Let me check my transcript here.
Um, I want to talk to him because he's been in the VR industry for many, many years, and there's a large number of things that happened that we can sort of go over, sort of like a, just like maybe talk about, we could talk about the whole VR industry and what his perspective, and it's very, I think it's very interesting.
Let me see if I can, what I want to do is, um, I want to create, like, a timeline of the VR industry.
Maybe I can create it live with him. Like, let me just see if I can make a timeline of the VR industry.
A timeline of, oh, this is great, yeah, timeline of neuroscience, a timeline of deep learning.
I need to create my own timelines. Like, I know other people's timelines exist, but what's the best tool for creating a timeline in?
So, I guess a timeline is kind of a drawing thing. Um, yeah. I can zoom in, write something, zoom out. I can make it smaller.
So, yeah, I can draw, yeah, drawing a timeline seems plausible.
Cool. Okay. With that, zoom in, with that note, note, note pad plus plus.
Okay, so that's, what I want to do is, like, I want to create timelines.
Um, and I think that eventually, like, after I sort of sketch out a timeline, that it should be transferred to, um, I thought to HD.
So, like, sketch it out first, and then transfer it. You know what I mean? Okay.
Yeah. And then, um, I think what kind of makes sense is, um, also copying things from iThoughts into Excel, um, into Google Spreadsheets.
The idea is, um, so going back to oscillations, each type of oscillation, I mean, each type of activity is going to have its own feeling to the human brain.
The human brain has to make distinct. So, with color, like, there's a frequency range associated with each color.
And so, the argument is that the human brain has to, um, make green, green when it renders it, and brown, brown, um, in contrast to green, and the space in between.
Like, there's blue space or black space in between the green and the brown.
I'm looking at a plant, and the background behind the plant is just black.
And, uh, it's, uh, Java, it's a cafe. It's not a Java Beach cafe.
And, uh, so the idea is that every, every, uh, type of thing is going to have its own signature.
Like, you're going to have green, it's going to have its own representation that's different from brown.
And that greenness represents the, um, the way, the, the, the greenness represents, um, a phase pattern.
A phase pattern is accomplished by the frequencies of light.
Right. And so, yeah, so your, your phase and your, your, um, frequency and amplitude is a phase pattern.
Frequency and amplitude is a phase pattern.
And so, if you have, actually, is that right?
No.
Yeah, hertz.
So time, space, and phase.
So time is like, okay, so time is like, yeah, so, and we, no, so I mean time is in time is in, like,
the, the timing of multiple sequences over milliseconds or seconds or minutes.
Intervals of time.
And the reality of the intervals of time.
Okay.
So, what, what do you mean?
You're, you're more focused on what you can, you can build in terms of, um, uh, okay, so the machines and the, and the software.
Is that what, is that where you're, I see, I, I see, well, so, so what, what I'm saying actually comes from, also from, from medicine as well.
For example, like, there is, um, if, if I, if, if I can continue, I'd like to, is that okay?
Okay.
So, um, what I'll say is, um, like, there is, um, let's talk about, um, yeah, I lost my train of thought for a second, I'm so sorry.
What were we saying?
Yes.
Yeah.
And, uh, going back to oscillations.
And, and, okay, so, going back to medicine.
So, you have, so you see patients, do you see patients with, um, Alzheimer's, do you, do you work in neurology at all with Alzheimer's or, um, patients with, uh, Parkinson's?
What?
Your, surgery, not, but not neurosurgery, just, uh, what, what, uh, oh, okay, okay, so, okay, so, you're, um, you would know, like, um,
I guess, do you know a lot about the skin?
Is that, that, is that where your focus is?
I'm trying to think.
Okay.
Cool.
Um, yeah, it's, it's, that's, I think I, that's where I get a little bit, sort of, like, that's my, I'm really, I'm really more focused on neuroscience and cognitive function.
But I'll tell you, um, I read this, I saw this recent book that we might, that might be interesting to both of us and everyone else.
It's, it's, um, it's just a, it's a book about, uh, cells by John Leaf, uh, L-I-E-F, um, and it's, uh, cells, it's a new book that he just wrote.
And if you just look up his name as an, as an author on, like, Amazon or something, I'm sure you'll find it.
It's a book that's, it's, the first word is cells, and I forget the rest of it.
It was something about cells talking to cells, and, um, it's just a really, it's, it's amazing all the different ways that cells talk to each other.
Yeah, sure.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
If you need to go a long distance quickly, then you have to use electrical signals.
Uh, and those are very expensive.
Mission costs a lot.
But in terms of compartmentalization, but there, there's many, like, ways in, in which that's happening.
So you can talk synapses.
Okay, but what I'm, what I'm really driving at is, um, is there a way for a dendrite to recognize a pattern and then make a decision about whether it's going to, um, cause an action potential to, to happen or not?
Absolutely.
Yeah, absolutely.
Um, so, okay, with the compartments, the more voltage compartments you have, then that gives you something like modeling.
There's that, how many voltage compartments are there?
So that's up, done in slices and figuring and, right, and then if you hammer the, the soma, you get, um, firing.
Hammer means what?
You're tapping it with something?
Uh, injecting current.
You're injecting current.
So this, yeah, yeah.
And, and, and I'm, you, you, people have worked this out, you know, talking about any current, like, this would be, like, in vivo, like, current from, you know, sensory input.
Yeah.
Let's say, um, and you, you can get the neuron to spike.
Now, those spikes will send back, uh, spikes, uh, be strong enough to get to the distal.
Those two things happen together, a whole nother spike.
The synergy between the soma and cell will start to burn mechanisms.
So basically there's, if you're mentalized enough, you, you can do things like the next thing that's a lot of similar inputs on one branch is, so depending on what spatial scale you're looking at, there's different, basically the neuron can now multiplex different types of.
So that's, uh, that's hard for me to wrap my, my mind around what you just said.
That was amazing.
Yeah, we, we.
Yeah, I would love to do that.
Um, does the, the, the distance, um, like the physical topology, uh, um, is that part of what caused the, uh, compartmentalization?
Like, like, I guess human neurons, human dendrites are, are much longer in some respect than, than mouse dendrites?
Definitely, yes.
So, uh, what, but what they found was, there are much bigger cells, distribution of channels, it actually stretches the distribution of channels, which.
So, it's, so, it, you know, that, I'm just relating what the data says, but one way to think about that, you may, as saying, you know, increasing computational power in the human cortex is less about the number of neurons.
Holy shit.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, no, that makes, that, that makes sense, but that, that's like, you're, there's like the basic unit of computation.
So, the, the cortex, uh, there's a really cool way to think about the cortex.
Yeah.
Like, it's a, a, a jungle.
Yeah.
So, it has a forest floor, and that's where the, these big cells I'm talking about, that's where their roots, their, their cell bodies are, are like the beginning of a root system.
Uh-huh.
And, and they're sending, you know, roots down, uh, those roots are, uh.
Okay, so here's what, here's what's, what's, what's, what's driving me right now.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, that may, uh.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
If I could, I, I just wanted to, that gets preset, which just blew my mind, because.
Um, yeah, I mean, I, I, I, I want, I, I mean, I guess we really ought to just, uh, record a formal conversation, right, and that way we can, uh, go over a lot more points.
I know you want to go to bed, and I, I really ought to let you go to bed, um, but I do have a ton of great questions, and, but I think we should do it, like, in a formal way, record it, and save it.
And, um, I have, I do, I'm going to, you know, what I'll do is, um, is I'll, I'll let you go to bed, and I'll write down my questions, and then I'll ask them, uh, to you next time.
Okay?
Sounds cool.
Yeah.
Thanks for running the room.
Nice running into you, Kyle, too.
Good night.
I'm just so, like, I, I, I'm humbled, too.
