=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0257y Micah book Dmt Nutrition
First recorded: 2021-06-30T02:27:42.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/3381d3e0-c452-428e-806a-1a026d13d145
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Hang on, yeah, I was just, I was just setting my, okay, so, so yeah, so, all right, so what is the question here? Let me see if I can answer this.
I see, okay, so, so, the way I would, I would describe it, so, have you ever played Tetris for, like, five hours or more, like, like, or played any video game for, like, such a long time, that after you were done playing the video game, you could see the video game when you closed your eyelids, you could still see, like, the Tetris blocks, like, when you were, like, just, like, I'm just, like, lying down with my eyes closed, I can still see Tetris for some reason.
Um, it's, it's, it's that, it's that the, the brain is, in that moment, in order for you to see those Tetris blocks, your brain has to make graphics, and so, what, um, my book is, is proposing is an explanation of how your brain has a graphics processor, that your visual cortex, uh, actuates the effect of a graphics processor.
And, um, so, but, but going beyond that, so, that's, like, everything you're seeing right now is, like, created in, in, in a, like, by a kind of graphics processor.
We could design a machine that, uh, that basically can perceive reality in the same way as your brain, just by mimicking the, the computations performed in your brain.
And, uh, so that is, that's the basic, that's, that's one of the many ideas, and so, but then, also, what has to be talked about is how all the other senses work as well, how those are rendered, how you perceive them, how you make models of reality, like, the, like, where are you?
Are you, are you in a city? Are you in, like, a place where you don't know what the name of the city is? Like, right, you know what I mean?
Like, what kind of construction of reality do you know, do you have around you? Like, do you think about the planet as being, like, this flat land, where in the heavens there are literally angels, and below the ground, somewhere below the ground is hell.
Like, like, like, like, what kind of, like, construct of reality are you imagining that you're in, right? Or maybe you're imagining that you're on a planet, right?
Right. And so, like, that's, uh, it's kind of, like, your expectations for what reality are, are kind of, like, they are affecting the, the rendering of reality for you.
And so, yeah, you could have someone who does something like DMT, uh, or psychedelic drug, and, uh, their experience of reality is gonna get real wild for, compared to what they're used to, because they're, they're gonna be seeing patterns all over the place, and reality is gonna change from, with DMT especially, reality may, may, they might see aliens, they might travel to other planets, they might live other lifetimes.
The possibilities with, uh, with that chemical are amazing. You could experience another, another life in another galaxy or something, or, or meet alien life.
But, but, it's like, it's as if your brain is operating as, like, a hologram, like a holodeck, like the Star Trek holodeck, where it's able to render any kind of holographic image to represent any kind of structure or any kind of combination of signals.
With, with the visual signals seeming to kind of dominate, just because the, they, they, it takes so much to process the visual information that we have.
And it's, and the visual information is, is correlated with all the other sensory information.
You know, like tactile, like, the somatosensory cortex interweaves with the visual cortex.
Because there's so much, like, whenever you're holding your phone and looking at your phone at the same time,
there's so much hand-eye coordination where the sight and, uh, what you're doing with your hands has to be aligned, right, in, with, in common, in.
So it's a multimodal, proceptive feedback system of your, of your hands and eyes working together to, to navigate reality.
But, it's like, so then, this is just a small piece of it.
But then we have to, like, describe how hearing, you know, you hear something and it travels to, uh, travels to the, the, to your old brain first.
It travels up the brain stem, uh, and eventually gets to the neocortex.
So we've got to travel the path of, of hearing from, from your ears, uh, to the thalamus, to the audio cortex.
And, uh, and then, and then what has to be talked about, our brain oscillations.
So we have to talk about, um, sort of, like, how information, how information is not just, like, you know, with a computer you have, like, information happens and, uh, computation happens in a series of steps.
You have states.
But, it's kind of like, your states, uh, in a, in a human being, in a biology are, are just, like, non-stop.
Like, there's no, there's, there's always this, sort of, current state, uh, and there's always, like, the updating state.
And, and so they never, the, the, the updates never stop.
It's like, programming something that never stops for you to, you to, uh, anyway.
But, like.
Um, I mean, I, I'm not sure exactly what, uh, I mean, yeah, there are, if you look this, I mean, if you ask, if you look on, uh, if you ask this, this type of question to a search engine, of course, you can find, what is it?
No, I know, yeah, I know what it is.
I know what it is, yeah.
But, what is your question about?
I see.
Well, it's, um, so, it's interesting that, so, you know, people, like, they, uh, people who are depressed, like, they're given serotonin, right?
They're given an SSRI, and the SSRI kind of, like, it kind of, like, interferes with the, with the serotonin, uh, uptake, it's a serotonin uptake inhibitor.
So, it means that you have receptors that are attached to neurons that are trying to uptake the neurotransmitter of serotonin, and now they're being interfered with, they can't accept, they're being, like, blocked.
So, it takes, like, it, uh, it takes, well, they're being clogged, I guess I could say clogged, because it takes, like, less to excite them, so they're more excitable.
So, that's, like, uh, instead of having a brain that's, like, oh, I'm really bored by this, you feel like, oh, I, this is really interesting.
Because, like, it's, like, it's being, it's being, like, uh, a part of your brain is more excitable, I guess.
And psychedelics, um, are similarly, like, they're serotonin agonists, and, but, but they, but they affect different serotonin, uh, receptors.
They, they, they, they, they're serotonin agonists for, like, receptors in the neocortex versus in the old brain.
So, they, so the chemicals go to different places.
So, this is true for LSD and psilocybin, mescaline, and DMT, which is an ayahuasca.
So, the, so ayahuasca is DMT with the bannicastery vine that allows the DMT to cross the blood-brain barrier, and that's the DMV, the DMT has a much more profound effect on your brain, uh, because of, because it's mixed with the, with the vine, uh, that will allow it to cross the blood-brain barrier.
But what happens is, now the, the DMT is a serotonin agonist, but it's not going to the old brain, which is what's used in antidepressant treatments.
Instead, it's going to the neocortex, and as it, um, it basically acts as sort of, like, artificial nutrition, uh, it's like, it's stimulating the, I think it could be, I think it's accurate to say that it's stimulating the, uh, it's causing the cell to stimulate faster.
So, it does have an effect where, yeah, the cell's going to be firing faster, the cells are going to be more active, your cells are going to be speeding up, your oscillate, the oscillations in your brain will be speeding up, they'll be faster and more frequent.
It's like, it's like someone gave you a jolt of caffeine, but a fuckton of it.
And, so it's like, it's like, your brain is going to be moving super fast, and the result of that is, is, is going to be, like, hallucinations.
Okay, and, but, but this is, like, all, all this, all this is stimulation, so if you have, like, a good nutritional environment, like, a protein-rich nutritional environment for your brain, then, uh, then this should result in improved health.
You should get healthier.
Uh, if you're, for some reason, uh, like, in malnutrition, you might have a bad trip.
You've got to make sure that, you want to have foods that are, like, you know, all your essential amino acids, all your essential, uh, fatty acids, your omega-3s.
You want to have good, good amounts of omega-3 every day.
Uh, you want to, basically, take, like, choline supplements, uh, nootropics, uh, there's a whole bunch of nootropics, you don't have to take them all, but you can take something.
There's, like, all the, there's all the race tams, R-A-C-E-T-A-M-S.
That's a family of nootropics.
You can combine them with choline.
Some people take acetyl, uh, choline, which is, like, ridiculously expensive, and I don't think it's worth it.
Like, why is, why is choline so much cheaper than acetylcholine?
I don't know.
I don't know.
It doesn't make any sense.
It's, it's, like, that's, take choline.
There's no reason to take acetylcholine, but, it's, this is unnecessary to pay that much more.
Um, but, the, uh, yeah, so, so, I mean, but, but in general, like, you don't, you don't, you want to think of the brains.
You don't want the brain to, you don't want to overstimulate the brain.
So, so, things that, like, stimulants are, are going to, they might cause the brain to, you want to get to, you want to get to, like, equilibrium.
You want to get to balance.
Because if you're overstimulating your energy, if you're overtaxing your energy system, that causes undue wear and tear, and your body needs to rebuild after that.
And if you're, like, overtaxing all the time, and your body doesn't have enough energy to rebuild completely, then you're moving towards disease and aging, right?
So, you want to find a, sort of, like, equilibrium between your energy input, your nutrition, and your energy output, and how much you're taxing yourself.
Whatever that is.
Uh, because somewhere in there is, like, your lifespan.
Right?
So, you just want to be careful with, like, not working too hard, and, and, or working too little.
Yeah.
Sure.
That's cool.
Oh, thanks, man.
Appreciate it.
Uh, always good to, to chat with folks.
I, um, uh, yeah, I mean, I, I got to, uh, now I gotta, like, finish my book, not just talk about it, right?
So, it's like, I gotta go do some work.
Some real work.
Um, okay.
Okay.
Great.
I will do.
Will do.
Thanks so much, guys.
I'll talk to you later.
And feel free to connect.
I mean, from, from a ton of research, uh, just, just focus on good nutrition.
There's, like, a ton of research, like, bad nutrition is, like, where, is where it gets harder to learn.
And, if you have, like, high quality nutrients, you know, all essential amino acids, all essential fatty acids,
um, then you're gonna, like, you're gonna learn the best, you're gonna have the highest IQ in five years.
Like, you want the best nutrition.
It's just, like, yeah, IQ will change, but nutrition causes those changes.
So, okay.
I got it.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Sounds good.
Bye.
You too.
Bye.
Bye.
