=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0267y My book Neurons Oscillations Dendrite
First recorded: 2021-06-12T06:20:57.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/8499b13b-6822-4e8d-be5c-4a7a5949ec08
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Um, having a conversation. What is it that, what's the outside data that you're, is causing this, all these micro things to come? Um, okay, so listen.
Having your brain, you're, we're talking about a human brain. We're talking about, uh, a computer receiving some kind of data. What, what is, in big blocks, what's happening?
Not, in little blocks. In big blocks, you have, you have an input, you have a process, you have an output. Input, you have a process, you have a decision, and then you have an output.
Okay, so, so, so what I just covered was, um, that you have multiple, you have multiple scales of, of, um, so there's, there's, just like, so the brain has an input, has input layers, right?
Um, artificial neural networks have input layers, and the brain has input layers. So the input layer is your eye, and your ears, and your smell, and for the computer.
Yeah, and it's, yeah, and it's a neural network, neural network, your senses, yeah, and, and, um, and then that extends, so you have, like, uh, and, so the four, the four main senses are, um, hearing, uh, uh, vision, uh, touch, and taste.
Those are the four main, four main senses, and, and, and the fifth one is, uh, smell.
But, what happens is, uh, the first four, they, um, they have a path where they, they'll go in through one side, uh, you know, from, from your eye to this, to, or your ear.
It'll, it'll, it'll go, it'll go, uh, the ears go to, basically to the center of your brain, and the eyes will go to, also to the center of your brain, uh, and, and then, uh, all the touch stuff, and taste, will also go, will go to the center of your brain, to where the thalamus is, uh, from the, from your fingertips, all the way up through your nervous system, right into the center of the brain, right?
And, and they all go to the thalamus first, and then, thalamus is, like, the router in the center of your brain, okay?
And then, and then they'll go, then they'll continue onward, so the left, so my left ear will go to the thalamus in the center of the brain, and then it'll go over to, um, well, the audio, so the audio travels up.
It goes to, goes to the thalamus, then it travels up the cortex, it's going to travel up to the left side of my audio cortex, and then the right ear will travel to the thalamus, and then it'll travel up to the right side of my audio cortex.
And then the, the left eye will travel, uh, back along the optic nerve to the thalamus, and then over to the right, to the right side of the occipital lobes.
Everything's reversed.
Everything's reversed.
But everything travels, but it travels, but, but it travels from, but what's interesting is everything travels, uh, from, from the eye to the center of the brain, reverses, and then to the, to the reverse side of the brain.
So the eyes are being, uh, the input up to the eyes are happening in the back of the, of the brain, uh, this is where the occipital lobes are, that's the visual cortex, the beginning of the visual cortex, and then you have the parietal cortex, which is above the occipital cortex, and then above that you have the somatosensory cortex, well, there's actually, I'm sorry, there's actually, like, the parietal cortex begins to merge with the somatosensory cortex.
So you have a lot of touch, touch, touch, and vision starts to merge in the higher levels of the parietal cortex, and then, and then the rest of the brain, the rest of the cortex is prefrontal cortex, and the prefrontal cortex, so, so basically, the, um, uh, the three areas of the brain, uh, that receives data from your senses are called the primary sensory cortices, this, they're, and they are, um, visual cortexes,
visual cortex, audio cortex, audio cortex, and somatosensory cortex, and, okay, so you know all of this, um, so, um, so, um, so the input, so the input, so the input, so everything that's not input, um, is, is, um, and is either, um, motor, so motor is everywhere, it used to be thought, well, you'd have, like, a motor strip, there'd be one strip that would be for motor, now we know that motor is everywhere,
that means that every, so, so the neocortex is six layers, and, um, it's, it's, it's, you know, all, all the cortices are neocortex, I, I mean, what I mean is, like, all the four, one, the four cortices that I just mentioned, they're all neocortex, but they, but they all have a motor output, and it's usually, it's usually, like, thought to be, like, the fourth or fifth layer, somewhere in there, that's the motor output,
so the first, the first layer is the input, and the output is the motor, and in between input and output, or in between input and motor, are what's called interneurons, and the interneurons are the, sort of, high level, um, way that it's possible for us to think, because they're doing the work of inhibition,
inhibition is, like, uh, slamming the brakes, uh, the brakes in between, are, like, the spaces in between our thoughts, if we didn't have, if, like, the, the, the silly, this is kind of a silly way to, to oversimplify it, but if we didn't have brakes,
we wouldn't, we wouldn't, we wouldn't have separate thoughts, we wouldn't, it would just be all just one mush, it's like, maybe, maybe when you, when you, when you, well, what's that legal, that legal thing that you can smoke, where you, like, you can't tell the difference between yourself and the room, do you remember that?
Like, you, uh, you, I'm spinning, I'm spinning, I'm gonna go outside and spin, or that thing, what's that called?
Oh, yeah.
Salvia, salvia divinorum.
Yeah.
So that's, so, let's say that that's what it's like when you, your, your interneurons are prevented from inhibiting, from installing brakes in your thought process, like, everything merges together, and there's no way to distinguish one thing from anything else, because you, because the brakes have been taken off.
It's, like, the brakes, I mean, like, in the, the analogy of a car that's braking, accelerating and braking, so, you have excitation, you have inhibition.
And those are the mechanics, those are the mechanics, those are the mechanics in which your brain presses on the gas, or presses on the brakes.
Now, what's interesting, what's interesting is if you, if you have, uh, an FNIRS device, and I, I sort of talked about this at your house, what we could do, if you have a what in your house?
Uh, I, I, when I was visiting your house, I talked to you about this.
If you have an, if you have an FNIRS brain computer interface, and we could monitor your blood flow, if we can monitor your brain while you're thinking, okay?
Yeah.
Now, imagine, imagine that you are, you're looking at a graph, and you're looking at the center of the graph, and, uh, so the graph has, um, there's a left and a right graph, and the, the left eye is looking at the left graph, and they're identical.
The right graph is looking at the right graph, so if you're looking at the center of each graph, each eye is looking straight ahead, and there's a dot, there's a dot for your left eye, and there's a dot for your right eye, and you're looking straight ahead at both dots.
Yes. Now, what, what the researcher is going to ask you to do, and this is, I'm just, I'm just, I'm just, re, re, describing an experiment that's already been, it's already happened, somebody did this.
The researcher will say, okay, now, what I'm going to ask you to do, is I'm going to ask you to move your eyes from the center dots on each of the two graphs, to the dot at the, on the rightmost side of each of the graphs.
So your eyes are going to move from the center of the graphs over to the right.
Right. That sounds pretty simple, right?
Yeah.
It's very simple.
But what we will observe in your, in the brain, is what we'll observe, um, a, uh, an increase of blood flow in, um, in, on one of your, on, on, on, on, on, uh, on one, in one of your hemispheres.
Somewhere, somewhere, somewhere around here, will, there'll be an increase in blood flow.
And in the other hemisphere of your brain, in almost the same area, but on the other, but in the other hemisphere, because, you know, if you, the left and right side of your brain are two different hemispheres.
It, on the right hemisphere, there'll be, so on the left, there'll be a decrease in blood flow.
And on the right, there'll be an increase in blood flow.
So as your, as you, uh, uh, you know, your motor activity, shifting your eyeballs from the center over to the right, there is going to be a correlating decrease in blood flow in one of your hemispheres, an increase in blood flow in the other hemisphere.
We could measure that, we could measure that with an FNIRS device.
Okay, and then, how do you interpret it?
You interpret it well.
Okay, go ahead.
So, yeah, I mean, we could draw, we could draw a graph, you know, we could create a graph, where we, where we showed that in this part of the graph that represented your brain, there was an increase in blood flow here that, that our, um, our device captured.
So you just, you just plot, you just plot, we measured this amount of increase of blood flow here, and we measured a decrease in the amount of blood flow there.
And that's a, that's a, that's a, that's a, yeah, that's a lateralization study.
Um, and that's why, that's one of the reasons why I would like you to use your 3D printer to, uh, consider making an, an, an, an, a, a headset that we could stick open BCI sensors in.
But, um...
You said that there was already a design for it?
I don't know that, I mean, there, there are designs for, uh, EEG, EEG device, but, but we need a, uh, a, something that will fit FNIR sensors.
But, but, but the, the, the thing is, the reality is, that we, that we, that we, if we had a, any kind of cap, like, like that, like that cap that you get, like the helmet thing, the net that sticks to your head, that goes, that you're gonna get your friend to send you, then you could just tape, you could literally just tape the FNIR sensor to that net.
So, the, the, the 3D printed thing is above and beyond what's absolutely necessary.
You could just, right, you could just tape it, the sensor to, to a head net.
And, that would, that would accomplish, that would accomplish the goal.
Okay.
Um, but, so what I'm saying is this, is that the, the, the, you know, uh, the, the, the, the, so this is,
what, so the book is, like, um, here, here we have, you know, I hear, uh, people in neuroscience, really, like, extremely educated researchers, will, will say the brain can only recognize frequency information.
That's not right.
There are, there are people who, uh, are, you know, what's that?
Yeah.
There, there are people, there are people who, like, who are super smart researchers, but they're deep learning researchers, and they honestly believe that neurons are dumb.
They think that neurons are just dumb, like, you know, like, like, they're not capable of understanding patterns.
They're not, they're not capable of distinguishing between two types of patterns.
They don't think the neurons are the place where, they think, where there's any kind of deduction.
They think it's only a, a tool for the whole process.
They, they think that the, the net, the network itself has to be where intelligence emerges.
They, they, they can't imagine that the cell by itself has the, has the capacity to recognize patterns, specific patterns, and, uh, choose what it wants to respond to and inhibit its own response if it's, from, from, so it doesn't fire for a pattern that's, it's the wrong pattern.
They don't, they don't, they don't imagine that capability exists, but, but, they, what they're, so I just got this, this new book by this, this brilliant researcher who I've been following for more, for I think maybe 20 years.
Um, and he talks about all the amazing things that the cells are doing in terms of communication.
Uh, you have, you have cells that are basically, um, they're, they're doing, they're kind of, like, intelligent communication that would be, like, um, over vast distances where they are, I mean, imagine that you have a, you have a, uh, we, imagine that we, that, that we had a guy in, in New York City.
And he was dealing with a problem, and we're, we're, we are sending, uh, we're gonna send another guy to New York City to help him fix this problem, okay?
This is what, this is what cells do.
They send, okay, so, okay, so then we're gonna, like, also send out chemical messages to, that are gonna go to this guy to help him find his way to the other guy.
So that the repair guy can repair the problem for the guy in New York who has the problem.
And we're gonna, and, and we're, we're gonna, like, guide this one guy all the way to the other guy.
This is what cells do.
And, and then this one guy is gonna repair the problem, and then we're gonna, do you see what I'm, like, this is, like, this is, this involves, like, communication over vast distances.
And your cells are doing this.
But the, but the people in deep learning think that one cell can't distinguish between, uh, between two types of excitatory patterns and, and choose its own response.
There's a, there's a, there's a gap between, there's a huge gap between, like, these are, these are non-neuron cells that can do this.
And neurons are more capable than these non-neuron cells.
So, I have this opportunity here to, sort of, like, um, basically, like, design a new perceptron, a new artificial neuron, a new artificial neural network, that is not just frequency information, but it's, it's frequency information, it's spatial information, and it's phasic information.
And it's phasic in the sense of the oscillatory, of the macroscopic oscillatory pattern of, of brain activity, because there's, because neural networks are non-temporal.
I mean, they're, they don't have, um, they don't have oscillations.
A neural network has inputs, and it has an output, and it's done, but it's not active in a, in a, um, temporal way.
It doesn't have different oscillatory patterns.
You're saying that the design is faulty?
No.
Basically.
No, I'm saying it's just limited.
It's just, I'm saying that we have, it's, yes, it's, it's faulty, it's faulty, yeah, it is faulty.
Uh, because it's based on wrong information.
Uh, it's based on, the wrong information is synaptic unreliability.
Synaptic unreliability was a concept.
That, they, that formed the basis of, of neural networks, of, in, not only in deep learning, but also in computational neuroscience.
It's the bedrock of artificial neural networks today.
And it's wrong.
It's, there is no such thing as synaptic unreliability.
And, um, so, yeah, so I have the chance to revolutionize, uh, uh, to, to bring a revolutionary, uh, new, uh, concept.
And that's sort of what the book is, the book is about.
So, when you wrote your last article, did you get any response?
There wasn't, you know, I, I don't think that many people read the article.
Because I, I'm still, I'm like, not enough people, like, not enough people read it.
So, I, it just didn't, that, because what, what I'm seeing is, there's a huge number of people who, um, who are operating as if they, my article never existed.
Like, for example, um, the article, the last article that I wrote, not synaptic unreliability, but the one that was about how deep learning is going to change volumetric.
Basically, it, it, um, it's, it's just, it, it was, my writing was too niche.
And that's why I need to, but, it, it, so people just, uh, the, most people are operating in the dark.
Because they don't understand how, because, I mean, I see, I see people talking about using LiDAR for, for volumetric scanning.
And even Apple, when they, when they, when Apple introduced their, their WWDC keynote event, they, um, the Apple, Microsoft, Google, these companies are clueless.
They're clueless.
I gave this article, they should have read my article.
They don't know.
They don't know.
What they're showing is, is, what they're showing the public, um, is clueless.
Because, uh, the stuff that I've seen at conferences like Seagraph, where they use AI to do things like, um, if you, if you, if you feed images into a computer to do what's called, um, uh, semantic segmentation.
And 3D semantic segmentation.
So you can do semantic segmentation with LiDAR data, with depth data, with, um, uh, with lots of, you, you know, with photogrammetry data.
You could do all of this.
But then what you do is, you have the neural network is going to figure out the depth, from the depth information, from all the points in space.
And it's going to figure out, um, you know, combining the depth with the textures.
It's going to say, okay, well, how do all these points fit together?
And what, and, and which of these points belong together?
Which of these points form an object?
And what is this object?
And what is this object in 2D?
And what perspective, and what is this object in 3D?
And a semantic segmentation network can turn, can convert a 2D object into a 3D object and vice versa.
And with GAN synthesis, it can take two 3D objects, or two 2D objects, and it can synthesize something that's halfway in between.
So you can have it create 3D representations of avocados and 3D representations of chairs.
And if you look up avocado chairs, MIT, you're either going to find my article, or you're going to find the article written by, written by another publication.
It has lots of pictures of avocado chairs that are halfway between avocados and halfway between chairs.
Because GAN synthesis synthesizes objects that have features of both avocados and of chairs.
And so it makes chairs that look like avocados.
You know, or it makes avocados that look like chairs.
And you can 3D print them.
This is GAN synthesis.
And you can do that with any two objects, right?
And the thing is, but not only that, it does shape completion, okay?
Now, shape completion is where you can, when you look up shape completion, read my last article.
Shape completion means that when you do, you do a LiDAR scan.
If you look at all these LiDAR scans that people are doing, you know, uploading to Sketchfab,
the first thing you notice is that there's a big, there's like, the scan looks really good,
but then you get to a point where it just, the scan stopped and there's this big hole in the graphics.
It's like, it's not perfect.
It's not perfect.
Because there's like, it's like, they have this, like, they do a scan of like a, of like a building.
But then, but then it's only like the front two-thirds of the building.
And there's like a hole in, in the scan.
And you can see it in the 3D model, there's a space where the scan wasn't complete.
And almost all of these LiDAR scans, they're incomplete.
But if you look at shape completion, in my article, shape completion means that the AI has recognized what it is,
and it completes the shape.
And so if we were using 3D semantic segmentation and shape completion with, with our LiDAR scans,
then we, then all the scans that people would be uploading to Sketchfab would be complete shapes.
They wouldn't have holes in them.
The AI would fill in the holes.
It would recognize what it was.
Do you see?
Do you see, do you see what I'm saying?
And, and to some degree, we'll be able to sort of do that retroactively, where, you know, we'll have AI,
AI will be trained on so many different shapes and so many different, you know, recognizing so many different real world things
that it will be able to go to all the Sketchfab models and complete them.
It'll be able to fix old, old scans by completing them.
So we'll have, all the old scans that we do, we'll have AI, we'll use an AI tool, it will grab the 3D model,
it will fix it, and it will upload the new version of it that looks better than the original scan.
But not only that, it'll be able to go through old photos and make 3D, 3D models of the people and the places from those photos.
In fact, if you have photos of anything, eventually that could become a virtual reality.
Any 2D photo could become a 3D virtual reality.
And so, even movies.
So, you remember Ready Player One, you read the book, and you could go into war games?
Well, that is realistic.
That is realistic.
Because you could take the movie, you could feed it into AI, it could create 3D environments,
and 3D representations of people from the movie frames, and then you could experience the movie in VR.
Or you could tailor, in the future, augmented reality will be so seamless,
that you could tailor the real world, just change the real world, just enough,
to live out the movie in the real world around you, in your house.
Just enough.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Like, um, so this is, this is like, yeah, but, um, um, but yeah, did you want, so yeah, so,
I don't know if you wanted to finish the thing about the neural networks, or did you get that?
So we, so, um, so we're talking about the, you know, a new artificial neuron, a new kind of perceptron,
and I'll call it the mica perceptron, uh, it does, it's going to do, not just frequency information,
it will do, uh, and not just amplitude information, it will do spatial information,
because the larger amplitude will have a spatial impact on the next layer of cells.
But also, not only that, but this, but I'm talking about a true 3D neural network.
So right now, we have 2D neural networks.
Now, a 3D neural network means that every neuron, uh, and every, every neural circuit,
so neural circuit is several neurons linked together, and when, and, uh, you know,
the whole, the whole time window of, of a neuron, when it fires to when it resets,
it's going to be, like, 10 milliseconds.
That's, that's not enough time to remember, uh, a sentence.
So, the idea is that you're going to have to have, in order for me to remember a sentence,
which is 10 seconds, I'd have to have a, um, I'd have to have two or more neurons,
or basically what's called a neural circuit, would have to repeat the, the messages relevant
to each part of the sentence, each, each millisecond of the sentence would have to be repeated,
uh, by a different neuron.
Or, you know, or it could be that, it could be just two neurons,
where one neuron would, would say part of the sentence, and the other neuron would say the next part.
I mean, at the minimum, it has to be two neurons, but it's probably many neurons, right?
And, so you have, the idea is that, for 10, for a 10 second sentence,
you're going to have to have a lot of different neurons that are going to have to fire.
Each one has to represent part of that sentence, in order for a 10 second sentence to happen.
In order, no, sorry, in order for a one second sentence to happen.
You have to have, you have to have, uh, neurons have to sort of repeat the message.
So short-term, so that's, that's the hypothesis right now for short-term memory.
One of the hypotheses is that you have a neural circuit that sort of, like, repeats a message.
And, uh, and basically it's like, if I, if I, if my, if you, imagine if your memory is only,
imagine if you're, as a human being, if your memory is only one millisecond,
and my memory is only one millisecond, and we have to, we have to remember something for 10 milliseconds.
And the way we do that is, is I say, okay, number four, and you say number four,
and then I say number four, and then you say number four, right?
And we have to keep saying that because it's the, because,
because that's the only way we can get our memories to last longer, um, than, um,
than, than, than the one millisecond that are, that, that we each have for memory.
It is by, is by, is by continuing to repeat the same message in a group.
And, um, and in general, you know, you have, you have, what's interesting is you have, um,
neurons will, will oscillate in large groups.
And if you have one neuron that fires out of the frequency of the rest of the group of oscillations,
like, for example, your, your, super chiasmatic nucleus,
which is, which is the thing that, that sets your, your, when you go to sleep and when you're awake.
That's your, that's your primary 24-hour clock, right?
You're, it's the thing that's affected by blue light.
If you have blue light too late in the evening, you're going to stay up longer,
you're not going to get enough sleep.
That's why, um, you know, doctors are recommending melatonin to help you get to sleep.
Uh, you gotta, you know, get your melatonin at, at, right at dusk.
And then by the time you, by the time it's, uh, it's time to go to bed, you have your, uh, you're tired.
And that will help you get to sleep.
And then, um, but the, but that's, that's because the melatonin is, is, uh, is your sleep chemical.
It's what, it's your, yeah, it's your sleep chemical.
It's the thing that you're, that your circadian rhythm needs to activate so you feel tired.
So you actually do go to sleep.
Um, and your caffeine, the, the caffeine blocks the melatonin.
It blocks the melatonin so you don't feel tired when you have caffeine.
Right?
You know all of this, I guess.
But the suprachiasmatic nucleus is, suprachiasmatic nucleus is, um, is about 20 million oscillating neurons.
They're all oscillating at the same frequency.
And most neurons are oscillating at the same frequency.
But they're, in, but they're oscillating with a sort of tempo, which is called, um, uh, it's a, it's a stochastic, uh, pink noise type of, um, oscillation.
It's like, um, it's just like a regular beat.
Okay, really, it's like every, you know, they're all going to oscillate with the same sort of beat.
And it doesn't really, it's, you know, we think it, we, we think it doesn't really mean anything that, all that significant.
It's just like this regular pattern.
All the neurons oscillate at this, like, regular pattern.
And it may, it's like, it doesn't really contain, it's, it doesn't necessarily, it's not obvious that it contains any information.
Because it's just a, it's just a regular pattern.
Just firing, right?
But it gets interesting.
When, uh, when you send new input data.
Tell me something, tell me something.
Are you rocking back and forth?
Yeah.
I'm just rocking, to symbolize an oscillatory pattern.
Okay, I was, I was kind of.
No, no, no, I was rocking because I was, that was me symbolizing that there's an oscillatory pattern.
So that, my head, my head movement was like, oscillation.
You were relaying this information on multilevels.
Yeah.
I want to make it better to remember.
Yeah.
Yeah, so.
So, is this, is this.
It's called, it's called the tonic, it's called the tonic frequency pattern.
It's a low frequency pattern.
And it has a high, has a high amplitude.
And there's a lot of, so, here's the interesting thing that I uncovered, okay?
So, that I was reading this book, uh, Rhythms of the Brain.
Uh, that's an incredible book that summarizes like 20 years of research, neuroscience research.
And there's a sequel, and I have the sequel.
Um, so I have all these great books.
But like, I have the best of the best books that I'm reading.
The best of the best books.
Like, the books that are the kings of other books.
And those are the books that I'm reading.
I'm reading the king's books.
And the king's books summarize all the, the lower level books.
All the lower level research.
Um, these are great books.
But, um, but anyway, so, the thing is that the, um, the higher level oscillations, um, they, uh, so they're, okay.
So, basically, the, most of the time that you have tonic firing, tonic firing is in this sort of like, uh, ready state.
It's like, your neurons are always ready to fire.
They're always in this state where they're, like, ready.
Like, like, basically, like, at the tipping point, like, I'm, like, uh, where a cascade could happen, where an avalanche could happen.
They're always, like, sort of moving to that state where they're on the edge.
And they could just, a thought could happen.
Because they're ready for that thought to happen.
And then, but, but it's, but basically, okay, so, in EEG, there's something, there's a, there's a math, there's a power law principle called 1 over f.
And it means that frequency and amplitude are, are inversely related.
And so that means that as frequency increases, amplitude decreases.
And as frequency decreases, amplitude increases.
And the whole brain is arranged in what looks like pink noise, uh, but it's not actually noise, because it's all, like, there's a lot of different oscillations.
And all the different oscillations are interlinked.
They're interlinked, so there's small oscillations and big oscillations and bigger oscillations and bigger oscillations.
But they're all a cascading result of microscopic oscillations on the single neuron level.
So, the single neuron level, uh, oscillations are creating the breaks in the larger oscillations.
And larger oscillations are oscillating around smaller oscillations.
And the oscillations are not, like, you would think, you know, when, when you look at oscillators, that oscillations would combine into one big oscillation.
But they're, they're, they're prevented from combining.
So they're, they're, they're, like, almost, like, orbiting planets.
Like, like, like, the oscillations orbit other oscillations.
And it's, like, you know, you think that planets would just collide because they're all gravitational objects.
But be, but their movements keep them in orbit around each other.
But they still affect each other.
So you have oscillations affecting other oscillations while maintaining their independence from other oscillations.
And then what happens is, when you have a neuron that fires out of order,
it creates a disturbance in the force.
A disturbance that all the other neurons notice,
because all the other neurons that are oscillating now start to slow down,
that they start to basically, they, that one neuron that fired out of order,
like, its oscillation, its oscillation has to now re-emerge with the oscillation of the collective in which it fired.
So the whole network that it was oscillating with is aware of the fact that one neuron fired out of order
because, because they all feel its gravitational pull,
because it gets pulled by the collective back into that singular oscillating pattern.
So it's almost like...
Why did they fire out of...
Why did they fire out of order?
Okay, so this goes back to the beginning of our conversation.
Okay.
Alright, so I was saying that because of synaptic unreliability,
that, um, because synaptic unreliability doesn't exist because of multivesicle release,
that basically that, um, you have, um...
When you say multivesicle release...
Multivesicle release.
You're saying that...
The fat sac, the oil, of neurotransmitters.
Okay, that those are all conveying the same information,
but the information is not spread only by one...
Or, in other words, the information comes and an ordered processing will send it down as many, uh,
different neurons as possible in case some of them mess up.
Okay.
Is that what you're saying?
No.
Well, what is the...
So, okay, let me, let me use my words.
Let me use my words.
So, what I'm saying is that you can have between zero and, and three, um, uh, vesicles can be released.
Between zero and three.
So if the neuron doesn't fire, it's zero.
If the neuron fires, it could be one vesicle released.
It's one oil sac.
Uh, if the, if the, if the, if the, uh, action potential wave, the voltage is larger, then more...
So then how much information is one vesicles releasing?
I mean, how much information is going?
I have that written down somewhere, but it's, it's, it's something like 2,000,
something like 2,000 atoms per, per sac, per oil sac.
It's, it's something like, yeah, something like 2,000, uh, neurotransmitters per, per oil sac.
So, so if you, so if you have two oil sacs and you're getting like 4,000 atoms, if you have three oil sacs, you're getting like 6,000 atoms that are being released into the synaptic gap.
And so, and so, and so you're multiplying, you know, between, uh, you know, 2,000 to 4,000 to 6,000 different atoms are being pushed into the synaptic gap between...
And the thing, the synaptic gap is going to have, like, 7 receptors, um, in one, in one, um, uh, bouton that will be, uh, and you'll have, one dendrite will have several boutons,
and then you'll have, um, uh, you'll have other dendrites.
So, you'll have many cells pushed together.
So, you have many dendrites and many boutons, and the bouton is, like, the thing that holds the receptors.
It's, it's a bouton, it's basically this, like, thing that sticks out of a dendrite, and it has a bunch of holes in it.
And the holes are the receptors, and they'll accept, you'll get maybe, you'll get maybe, you'll maybe have, you know, you know, five to seven receptors in a bouton, something like that.
Um, how many boutons do you have?
I don't, I don't know.
You're asking, there's, there's too many details at the moment.
I will find out, I'll find out what the average number of boutons is.
But, um, I, it's not too many, but I'll, I'll find out.
But the thing is...
Are boutons, are boutons like boutons?
No, no, bouton is like, um, it's sort of like, it's sort of like a, um, it's almost like, you know what, you know the COVID virus?
You remember seeing pictures of the COVID virus?
And it has like, crown, it has like, crowns.
It's like a ball with a bunch of like, uh, things that stick out of it, but each one of those things is like a crown.
Okay, so that's what, a bouton is kind of like a crown.
It sticks out of, it's like a bunch of things that stick out of the dendrite.
So dendrite has two kinds of things sticking out of it.
One is a bouton, which is kind of like, it's kind of like a mushroom shape.
It's kind of, it's kind of like a mushroom.
Yeah, it's kind of like a mushroom.
That's a good, that's a good, it's a mushroom, but it has holes in the top.
It's like, it has pores in the top, so it can receive atoms.
It can receive atoms.
Okay.
It's like a mushroom that has holes in the top that can receive atoms.
Okay.
And, and besides that, there's also spikes.
And spikes, um, are just like little hairs on the tree.
So imagine your, your, your dendrite is a tree without leaves.
It's on a tree.
Yeah, so it's like, your dendrite is a tree that doesn't have leaves, but it has little hairs on it.
Like cilia?
Like in your lungs?
Sure.
I think.
You don't have, you don't have a lot of time.
I think I do.
Uh, maybe I should look it up.
Okay.
The cilia carry the oxygen molecules lungs to your cells.
I mean, just look it up.
And oxygenates your cells.
They carry the oxygen molecules and they release the CO2 molecules.
Okay.
But they line, they're like little hairs.
It's kind of a, uh, like, uh, that's how you breathe.
So you're saying that in the brain you have mushrooms that receive the information through oil sacks that exchange chemicals.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
The oil sacks, uh, break.
The oil sacks contain atoms.
And when you release the oil sacks, they break and atoms spill over the mushrooms.
And the mushrooms receive the atoms.
Is it like the sodium atoms and the phosphate atoms?
At this, at this point, at this point, um, I think we're talking about, uh, again, um, the, uh, so there's, there's, there's, um, there's sodium, there's chloride, there's potassium.
There's calcium.
But, but between the neurons, I think we're talking about GABA and, uh, GABAergenic.
Um, and, um.
That's ABBA-GABA?
No.
No, no.
Um, so there's, there's, there's dopamine.
Hang on, let me look this up.
Uh, there's, uh, acetylcholine, dopamine, and GABA.
You know what I'm talking about?
B-A-B-A.
Okay.
So between the, between the neurons, we're talking about, um, what goes into the mushrooms, the receptors.
We're talking about GABA, uh, um, hang on, what's, there's one more.
Let's see.
Let me just do, like, a search.
Yeah, let's see.
GABA, acetylcholine.
These are ion.
Well, no, no, hang on a second.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, hang on, hang on a second, hang on a second.
Okay, so there, there, an ion is a charged atom, but in the case of, it's, it's a multiple atom.
So there's that, there's that.
You can have, you can have a chemical, which is multiple atoms, okay?
But an ion, but an ion at the root of it, whether it's a chemical or an atom, is a, is, is a chemical with a charge or an atom with a charge.
But you can all, but the GABA is, I think GABA is an atom that doesn't have a charge.
So I think we're talking about, for the most part, we're talking about atoms and chemicals that are, that don't have a charge, and so they would not be considered ions in that case.
In some cases, they do have a charge, but, but for the most part, these are non-charge, non-charge, non-ionic atoms.
So, but the point is that the, but the, but the, so you're going to have two types of, in theory, and the theory that I have, you're going to have two types of excitatory signals, which the excitatory signals will be like when one cell's receptors, when a lot of its receptors are receiving signals.
Then, if you, if you, if you artificially overwhelm a cell's receptors, you will force it to fire.
But in the natural environment, I think that a cell could receive two types of excitatory signals, and it could choose between, you know, self-inhibiting its, its action potential through a number of methods.
Or the network, the second, at the second level, the network could inhibit that cell by feeding it inhibitory signals, which might include, basically, you know, you've got, you've got, you know, sodium, the sodium can respond, sodium channels can respond, and those are the positive channels that will lead to an action potential.
But what count, what can inhibit those is the chloride atoms, so if the chloride receptors open up, then those negative signals can, can stop the action potential, it's like an inhibitory process, which will prevent the action potential from happening out of order.
Um, there's many, there's many, there's many other inhibitory paths that can happen inside the cell and outside the cell.
The other, the neighboring cells can be, can, uh, like, can release, um, like, you're gonna have, like, basically, you're gonna have, like, um, get, you're gonna have AMPA receptors and GABA receptors, and, uh, some of those receptors will be receiving,
will be doing, will be doing something with, with, with, um, sodium, and, you know, like, sodium will be flowing out of them, and some of them, you'll have, you know, chloride flowing out of them, and then, um, yeah, so my, my picture's a little bit fuzzy,
because, like, now I'm like, now I'm like, I'm like, oh, wait a second, well, where, wait, where's the line between the acetylcholine and the GABA and the sodium and the chloride?
Like, how, where, like, I, like, I know I'm confused, like, how are they separated?
Wait, how does this work?
Okay, we're going too deep.
But, no, no, I need to, I need to, in the research, I need to, to do, to go deeper.
But I, but, but, for what I can tell you, I, neither one of us right now has enough information, so I need to look at the research before we can go deeper, but, um,
and you, you also need to look at the research, but I doubt you will, so, because you have no, no motivation to do so, but if you want to, that'd be great.
We need to look at, basically, patch clamp, and there's two things, one is John Lee's book, the other one is patch, patch clamp experiments, classical patch clamp experiments,
because those really dive deep into the, um, the classical patch clamp experiments dive deep into, basically, the, um, the electrochemical, uh, properties of cells.
Because, basically, a patch clamp is what you, you, you clamp, you literally, like, you know, like, when you, you know what a clamp is in the context of, of your garage, right?
You, you, you, you can clamp something onto the table, right?
Right.
Well, patch clamp is a similar concept, it's that they, they clamp something onto tissue.
So, you can clamp something onto, uh, part of the neuron, you can clamp it onto receptors, and you're clamping a sensor onto tissue to, to watch what it's doing electrically.
And, so, the classic patch clamp, um, experiments, basically, were able to observe, you know, how, you know, potassium, and, and, uh, they, basically, they, they were able to observe how, uh, voltage changes happen in the cell, and how the ions change in the cell.
And, so, there's, like, a ton of data that a neuroscientist advised me to read, to go, to go through, so I can solve some of these questions, um, for my book.
But, now you get, now you get the idea.
So, like, I have, like, this is, so, like, the fundamental mechanics of the brain have been misunderstood.
And, uh, and that has affected the development of artificial neural networks.
So, not only can I potentially correct how, uh, the brain actually works in a fundamental way, I can create a new artificial neuron, called the mica-perceptron.
There's been a number of perceptrons that were named after different researchers.
Um, but, um, so there's, yeah, there was, like, a Charles-perceptron.
Go ahead.
Anyway, the design of the perceptron.
So, here's, what they're trying to do, what they're trying to do electrically is reproduce the way they transferring information.
So, and to make, to make an AI, right?
Yeah.
Is that what you're saying?
Yeah.
Instead of wiring it up to make the, all the transistors work one way, which is what we have for linear basic computing and quantum computing.
They want to line it up so the information is transferred the way the human brain transfers it for me.
But the way they've done it in the past has been in a way that's not a true representation of how the brain is working.
So, that's what you're saying.
Yeah.
And if they do it the other way, they'll be able to relay a lot more information than what they're doing now.
That is the, um, that is the super vague, super vague, uh, uh, outline.
That's a super vague outline, vaguely, of, but you could be, you could be describing my project or you could be describing what everybody already knows.
Because it's just so, it's so high level and big at this point, but, because everybody knows, everybody, basically everybody knows that, that, uh, that, um, that artificial neurons are not biologically plausible.
Uh, and the bigger, the big, the real big issue is that the key to the deep learning, uh, revolution is backpropagation, artificial backpropagation, which there is nothing like artificial backpropagation in biology.
And, uh, people think that there is no, backpropagation is how, uh, is how a, um, an artificial neural network will, uh, will fix its own errors.
Where it, it's, basically you can, you can, uh, you can reward a neural network for, you can reward individual nodes for getting the right result.
You can spank individual nodes for getting the wrong result.
But you spank them through backpropagation, and there's no biological path, uh, for, for this sort of, like, high level computational mechanism called backpropagation in biology.
So, you essentially have to send a signal backwards.
The signal has to go to the right place.
But, um, here's the thing.
It's, like, people in deep learning can't imagine how this could be biologically possible, plausible, because they think that neurons are dumb.
They think that you can't, you can't have one neuron, you know, write a letter to address another neuron in a specific area of the body to send a specific message.
That is, that is, but they're, they're, they're wrong about that.
They're wrong about that.
Uh, they're wrong about that.
Because even, even cells that are dumber than neurons can do that.
And that is for, that is for a fact.
But, um, but in addition to that, um, here's the thing.
Uh, in the real brain, neurons are not two-dimensional.
And neural column, neural circuits, see, there's neural circuits where you just have a bunch of neurons that are linked together.
But then there's microcolumns, which are, like, an, like, a column.
It's, like, it's, like, a thin column in the neocortex from the first layer to the sixth layer.
And then you have cortical columns, which is our thick columns that go, they're really, like, if I want to use, if I can use two hands, they're, like, the bottle will be, the bottle will be, uh, one hand.
And this, my, my, and then my other hand is, like, a cortical column is really, a really big column between the first layer, second layer, third layer, fourth layer, fifth layer, and sixth layer of the, of, of the neocortex.
That's a really big column, cortical column.
You have a limited number of those, but it's, like, you know, hundreds, thousands.
And, um, that's, like, the macro, big, uh, column.
And that's, like, a big neural circuit.
And, uh, most of the brain is organized in these big columns, with little columns and, uh, in strips of, of networks.
But a cortical column is, by itself, so it's, like, it's, like, it's, so if the dendrite, the dendrite is this tree thing, right?
It has hairs and it has mushrooms.
The dendrite itself is a neural network that can recognize patterns.
It can recognize two types of excitatory patterns and either inhibit itself to fire or pass on a signal to the soma.
So that the soma is, is, is, um, the soma is just, like, the, the body between the dendrite and the axon.
And the axon is, the, the axon is, like I said, the dendrite is the beginning of the cell, which is, like, a tree.
The, the axon is, like, the, is, like, the, the tree brain, is, like, the tree, um, uh, you know how, like, a tree has a stem?
It's, like, a long, thin stem?
That's the, that's the axon.
And the stem, the axon, can go from, can go from your, from, you might have, like, the dendrite might be in your gray tissue right underneath your finger.
Right underneath my finger?
See where my finger's at? There could be a dendrite right underneath my finger.
Maybe, maybe about 10,000 dendrites.
And it's gray matter.
But those dendrites might, might go all the way down to, like, like, the dendrites will connect to, uh, those things have the spines, which are hairs, and they have the mushrooms, which are the, the, the, the, the synaptic boutons.
And, um, but they will connect to a soma, which is where, so it's like, so imagine, imagine a fractal, right?
So fractals, like, you have, imagine my, my hand is, my hand is a fractal, okay?
And, um, the, look, would you, or do you, do you see my hand right now?
Okay, so the dendrite is, like, the tree.
So imagine each of my fingers are, like, the branches of the tree.
So the dendrite is where each of my fingers is, is part of the dendrite.
Now, where all the fingers meet in the body of the hand, I'm, I'm trying to point to my own hand, but I'm holding the phone, and it's always difficult.
The hand itself in the center, the center of the hand, right?
Like, this part of the hand, that part of the hand, that's where the soma's at.
So the soma is where all the tentacles of the dendrite meet.
And so the soma is like, it's almost like the center of the dendrite.
Okay, and then my wrist, my wrist is like the, the axon.
It's really long and thin, okay?
And the end of the axon is the axon terminal.
This is the part that connects to, well, it's actually my arm.
So it's the end of the axon.
It's the part that connects to the rest, to, to the other cells.
But there's, like, a space, and it doesn't physically connect.
There's, like, a space between the end of one axon and the, and the boutons, and the boutons of another cell.
Yeah, you know this.
But, yeah, so, so the soma.
I had, I had biology, and I had psychology, and psychology.
So, okay, good.
I talked a lot about the way that the brain, the axons, and the dendrites, and all that stuff.
Okay.
Sending signals back and forth.
Yeah.
But they didn't talk about, they didn't talk about the idea that, so, so in order for the soma to fire, it has to receive a lot of voltage.
It receives a lot of voltage from, you know, from the different receptors that are firing on the dendrite, and from the dendrite itself that can fire voltage.
So there's, there's, there's, there's, this individual synapses can each fire, like, little, little pieces of voltage, and that contributes to the overall soma's power, which may trigger the action potential.
So, but then the dendrites themselves, the big fingers, those can fire action potentials in two different directions.
They can fire towards the soma, or they can fire backwards downstream from the, from the second layer down to the first layer.
So that is a, that is a one path for back propagation, for a signal to travel from the second layer back down to the first layer of cells.
And so, so, so in the brain, you have, in the real brain, you have, each layer of cells receives data from the thalamus, okay?
All, all of the, all of the, all of the, all of the primary sensory cortices receive data from the thalamus, from your, from your, from your thalamus, but that's ultimately from your senses.
Okay, but, but, um, so what's happening is, they're receiving data, and it's going from, it's, the thalamus is sending data directly to layer one, directly to layer two, directly to layer three, four, five, and six.
But layer one sends data up to layer two, and layer two sends data back to layer one.
There's a lot of, like, traffic going back and forth.
Okay, but, but, but imagine, but now, so you have the neural columns, and each neural column goes between layer one and layer two, and there's a lot of up and down traffic, okay?
But, but, and most of the traffic stays in that column, in that cortical column.
A lot of up and down traffic, a lot of cross traffic, but ultimately, the traffic is flowing in 3D.
It's flowing in 6 different directions, which means, the traffic is flowing up and down, left and right, forward and back.
So you have, like, you have the X, you have the X axis, you have the Y axis, or sorry, X would be up and, I'm sorry, Y would be up and down, X would be left and right, and, and Z would be forward and back.
And data is flowing in all 6 directions.
So, each cortical column is processing most of the data in a silo, from, in the Y, along the Y axis, but, along those different layers.
But every layer is sending information in every direction.
And so that, so it's like, that's different from, like, neural networks, where an artificial neural network today has an input layer, and the first layer sends information to the second layer, the second layer sends information to the third layer, the third layer sends information to the fourth layer, there might be 256 or 500 layers, or 1,000 layers, I don't know.
And then...
Do you know I'm a bit tired?
Yeah, no, we're both tired.
Uh, yeah, so...
It's 15 after 1.
It's, oh, shit.
But, I forgot, it's 2 hours later for you.
Alright, um, uh, okay, let's end it there.
Um, but, uh, yeah, so we can end our talk, we can end our talk about neuroscience there.
But, um, you should get to sleep, and you should really, like, what, you know, you're doing a, you're gonna do a sleep study or whatever, but, like, see a doctor about, you know, strategies for getting good sleep.
Don't just, like, do a sleep, don't just, like, do a sleep, don't just, like, have bad sleep so you can impress the sleep study people.
Who do you think...
Who do you think can tell me to get the sleep study?
Well, okay, but...
My physician...
Are you trying to continue to have bad sleep so you can impress the sleep study people, or are you gonna actually, like, do, try to fix your own sleep?
My doctor's trying to figure out why I get bad sleep.
But he's not recommending melatonin.
Can you see a...
I think he might have said something about melatonin and the use of caffeine, but he's, he's doing blood tests, he's doing the sleep study, he's doing brain scans to see how my, what may be in my head that's affecting my sleep.
Well, I mean, I can, I can tell you right now that doctors are, are ordinary human beings, and, and they're just as likely to troll as, as, as the, as the next Texas idiot.
And you should see a second opinion.
Uh, you should get a second opinion.
Doctors, I mean, we put them on pedestals, but they are ordinary people.
Well, he's not the only one giving opinions.
What I'm saying is, he sent me to all kinds of different doctors.
Did he?
Yeah, a urologist, you know, it's tech and everything.
Yeah, alright, is it, but still, is it possible you could see another sleep study doctor that he doesn't know?
Well, the sleep, it's a, it's a division of the hospital study.
They call it, they call it, they call it a, they call it a sleep study.
Here's the, here's the problem, okay? Doctors have multiple attendants, they need patients to be part of their sleep study.
If you see another doctor who's not part of his cadre, who's in a different, different hospital that he doesn't know, he may be able to prescribe you with a strategy that it's not about serving a study, it's about helping you to sleep.
Because being able to sleep is a medical, is of critical importance medically for you to be able to sleep.
I don't know, I don't know, I don't know why you're being obstinate.
What?
I'm just saying, I don't know why you're being obstinate.
The way things work is, you have an insurance group, you have a main physician, he recommends specialists, specialists do their work.
The general physician takes all that information and tries to figure out what's wrong and then makes recommendations for, they all work together, is what I'm saying.
From my perspective, from your perspective, what I just said was being obstinate and from my perspective, it's you're the being obstinate.
But I'm just saying, like, why can't you take melatonin now and set an alarm clock now and turn off your sources of blue light now and start treating yourself now?
Why do you have to wait until the study's over?
I'll talk to him about it.
But it doesn't address all the other questionable observations that he's made.
He makes a complete observation.
You're going by something that you've read in a book.
He's observing my medical conditions.
He's looking under the hood.
You're talking about a general practice.
Okay?
You're making recommendations based upon what you've read.
He's making recommendations based upon his actual observations of data.
You know, he's observing my data.
And he's, you know, forming a hypothesis.
Look, look, look, look.
It won't, what I want to say before you go to bed is that, is that, is that, please get a second opinion.
Because there are, there are doctors who, who, he has, he has an agenda.
I'm telling you, he has, he has to do studies to, to, it's, he has multiple things happening.
And it doesn't mean that he's, it doesn't mean that anything that he's saying is wrong.
It doesn't mean his analysis is wrong.
It just means that he's doing more than one thing at the same time.
And any person who's doing more than one thing at the same time can have their goals confused.
He's not strictly trying to help you as his only thing.
He's also trying to help his studies.
He's also trying to help his research.
He wants to, he wants to study you.
Well, fine.
Let him study you.
Let him study you.
But, see a doctor who doesn't have an agenda.
Just to see if they're saying the same thing.
That doesn't hurt, that doesn't hurt you.
It just, like, you just know, are they saying the same thing?
Okay.
Right?
It doesn't hurt your doctor friend either.
Okay.
Okay, I gotta go to bed.
And now you don't want to disappoint your doctor friend.
All right, good night.
I gotta go to bed.
He's not my friend.
He's my doctor.
He's your doctor, but he has an agenda.
That's what you told me.
He wants to put you in a study.
No, no.
He wants to find out what's wrong with me.
And, uh, you don't put somebody in a sleep study in order to further an agenda.
You put people in a sleep study to observe your behavior.
The sleep study is the agenda.
To have, you need to have...
Micah, Micah, stop for a second.
How do you think science has performed?
I'm telling you that there's going to be, you're going to find out that there are multiple
people in a sleep study.
And he, he has, you always have to find more papers.
You always have to find more.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
It's not a sleep study where you have a bunch of people that check in and you study them
and you write a paper on them.
It's a study.
It's an observation of data by watching me when I'm sleeping.
Okay, look.
And to see what happens to me.
I know, I know doctors.
That's how data is going to be.
Listen, listen, listen to me.
Listen to me.
I know doctors who do sleep studies.
I know doctors who do sleep studies with EG and other things.
That's all they do.
They just do one sleep study after another.
That's all they do.
They need new patients constantly.
It's like, feed me another patient so I can do another sleep study.
They're professionals at sleep studies.
They need more patients.
I'm telling you.
But, yeah.
Okay.
I don't understand where you're going with this, but I gotta go.
I gotta sleep.
Okay?
