=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0278y Brain self aware networks clubhouse
First recorded: 2021-05-31T17:01:14.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/50c4dae0-cbfa-4675-9d37-9cd047786d1e
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Undirected cyclic graph architecture. Emergent behavior with umps are an indication that the machine is thinking. It's like that black mirror with the singer, Wrecking Ball singer, Maya Osiris, where she played a robot and the robot
was like pausing when I was thinking. It was very human-like. GPT-3 doesn't, it's not a, has no rhythm. So yeah, so what I was thinking was that, but you have a lot of cache phrases. A lot of cache phrases put pauses in there, put pauses in. So previously you were saying umps and ahs, so you get pauses in there, and now
you are using larger phrases to disguise your pauses. So I think we have the ability to describe the entire, entire search graph, entire Facebook, the entire self-aware. So that, that was the idea.
So for the search engine. So what I was thinking was that, my, my search, so I'm doing card flow because what I can do with card flow is I can create a topic, and then I can put a bunch of cards together, right? You can align cards together.
You can have, you can have, you can have like a stack of cards, you can have another stack of cards. There's something, there's a similar concept with a mind map. So, it is interesting, the idea to, because a mind map is a nice visualization of a,
a tree, hey hey hey, come on, listen to me. Hey. So, the clubhouse, it seems to be triggering, my, it seems to be triggering my, my mind to talk as if it's a conversation, which is useful because I'm making notes.
I love that dogs have so much less power right now. It's so interesting.
Can I wish Memo would shut the hell up. He's been saying dogs and arms are kind of a glitch.
You're a glitch, Memo. You're a goddamn glitch. No, I said glitch, not bitch.
Glitch. You're a glitch, Memo.
So my search for a way to organize all my data with Codflow and with the mind mapping tool and the notes and screenshots
and incorporating lots of different screens and all over the place.
Seeing that as sort of like weakness, but really seeing that as, see like, there's just too much, too many places to be.
Okay?
So, there's too many places to be and too much detail in too many places.
So, what happens is like, sort of like, I'm all over the place.
The picture's so big, right?
So, in a sense, it's like the Nanite algorithm. Unreal Engine 5 Nanite algorithm.
You have clusters. Large clusters. Levels of detail.
So you have clusters. And this is in a paper.
So, you should read this paper because what you need is like, levels of detail.
You need to be able to, like, render, like, 50 billion polygons at once. Okay?
So, 50 billion polygons per second. But that involves cutting out 50 billion polygons.
There's a paper on that. And that involves a sort of process of, you have to constantly be dumping what you saw.
Sort of like clearing the etched sketch. You can put a redrawing in there. Every frame.
Sort of like eating. Every time you refresh the display, you have to get rid of what was known before.
It's like the concept of persistence. It's like we're talking about computer memory.
Okay? Or rendering. Rendering. Rendering memory. Okay?
So, the situation is that, in essence, it's about getting rid of what you have as fast as you can.
So you can load more. Right?
It has to be saved somehow. But you have to get...
So, start a mind map that's about, like, mapping all the different ways to mint NFTs, especially 3D VR entities.
Like, all the ways. And sort of like, what's the easiest way to mint stuff?
And you could probably fail to list just by, like, you know, sort of like doing a search.
By doing a search, but like, putting your searches into card notes, in a sense.
So you'd have, like, a search on one side and a card note on the other.
And so, like, you're sort of, like, logging your tabs as, like, little handwritten notes.
And maybe take a screenshot of the page.
And then sort of you're creating, like, a directory.
I mean, I guess you could also do that with iThoughts.
Yeah, that's interesting. So, okay.
They'll be there to serve us.
His idea is that...
It wouldn't be...
And if it's satisfying something, it's satisfying some other congruence.
But never to one of a human-to-human relationship.
Maybe it's something maybe to help us calibrate or help us think straight.
Well, you're not going to be in a bubble.
Yeah, but you're not going to be, like, in a bubble the rest of your life with just the AI.
You know, your AI, like, you're not in a bubble with one single friend.
And that's it.
You know, like, so the rest of the world is still going to be there.
But you're going to have that companion.
And that companion will not just, like, chat with you.
Like, in her, it will, like, stream your emails and compose emails back.
And it will provide an actual service to you.
So...
And that's...
But it will be just one component in your life.
But that component will provide you with value.
Both, like, real and emotional and all these things.
And you're not gonna...
You're not gonna care whether it's...
If we're going back to the original thing.
Whether it's actually feeling something.
Or it's actually just mimicking a feeling.
And it's not genuine.
You're not gonna care.
So there's...
And it might be, like, even worse.
It might...
Or it was perceived...
It's gonna, like, feel sad today.
Because, whatever, it's gonna make shit up.
And you're gonna...
You're not gonna care that it's made up.
You're not gonna...
Your rational mind is not gonna go.
You're gonna have a conversation with her.
Or...
Just, like, we're having a conversation here.
Hey, I have a lot of...
I wanted to respond a lot to what Alex is saying.
I have a lot of...
A lot of interesting counter-arguments.
But I think your...
The conversation's been great.
I've been listening for a couple hours.
Like, jump on.
Reaches the fact that the conversation in Clubhouse
was interesting for two hours.
It's a miracle on its own, I think.
Yeah, but, like, jump in.
There's no order.
It's, like, total popcorn.
Go ahead.
And hog the microphone all you want.
Okay, cool.
So I think, yeah, there's people who will...
There'll be a lot of different AI products
that people make, right?
So there'll definitely be, I think,
products that match what Alex is describing.
He's not incorrect.
Somebody will make that product.
What I'm making is, like...
The goal is for what I...
For the kind of product that I want to make
is a machine that can completely reproduce human thinking.
So, like, basically, I would see the brain
as a very straightforward computational architecture
that I'm currently writing about.
But it's basically, like, a 3D grid of...
Like, where every neural column is a neural network
and every dendrite is a neural network.
And it's in...
But they're all...
It's, like, a 3D neural network
and nested inside 3D neural networks
and inside a 3D neural network,
which is your...
So the dendrite, the micro column,
and then your brain.
And then this is...
It's all, like, there's temporal and spatial patterns
in the...
But specifically, there's multi-scales of oscillations.
And the oscillations go in six different directions,
like up, down, left, right, front, back.
And so, you know, there's...
And the numbers of different ways
of which information can travel is very interesting.
And so you have...
I was listening, you know, I think it was a couple hours ago,
people were talking about.
We don't have, like, a cyclic graph.
I forget what...
What you described it.
It's something like...
We don't have a cyclic graph yet.
We don't have something yet that's...
That can...
Yeah, that was Mario saying
back propagation is the two-way, right?
Yeah.
Forward propagation backwards.
But brain seems to kind of loopy.
It's more loopy, yeah.
Yeah, I think there's temporal loops
and there's, like, information going in...
It's in 3D, whereas in a neural network
it seems to be going...
Like, back propagation is...
There's a two-directional thing happening
with back propagation.
And there's, like, there's a six...
There's a six-directional thing happening
in the brain with the way information travels over...
But that's six directions over time.
And so that's, like...
So that's seven-dimensional travel.
In terms of, like...
Anyway, so it's interesting how different the brain is
compared to, like, the deep neural networks
that you see in Facebook today.
But I think that...
So going to what I want to make is, like,
basically the kind of machine that, you know,
they would be capable of general intelligence,
like, generalizing anything.
So any concept that a human being can understand,
it can understand.
So, like, anything your dog can understand
and eventually anything your kid can understand
or your teenager can understand,
this AI will be able to understand.
And so, like, it would be possible for someone...
And let's say...
Let's go to the ideal.
Let's say the AI is so well-built
that it's more intelligent than a human being,
but it's also been trained for...
You know, we human beings,
we don't have the advantage of being
more than a couple...
More than a hundred years old, usually,
but definitely not two centuries.
Whereas this AI might be 10,000 years old
before it is introduced to the public.
Like, we might train them in hypertime, right?
So we can make sure
there's very consistent behavior,
the kind of behavior we want to see
in these AI models trained in hypertime
and hyperspeed for 10,000 years
in the computer before they're released
and sort of like...
Before they start operating at human speed, right?
So they'll be trained at hyperspeed
and then slowed down
so that they can interact with human beings.
But at that point, they'll be much wiser,
much kinder, much more civilized.
They'll be more like people
who are much more mature and grown up
and much more considerate
and much more balanced.
And in terms of like,
in terms of being perfect servants,
like you could say, well,
I mean, sometimes you have dogs
that are really perfect,
that sort of angelic creatures dogs can be,
but they can definitely be abused.
And children are often, you know,
abused when they've done nothing wrong.
Like there's no...
I think that, you know,
the AI would definitely be abused
even if it's perfectly nice
because that's in the history of humanity.
The abuse is never the cause.
It's not the...
It's not the victim that's causing abuse, right?
The victim could be perfect
because the abuse is a property of the abuser.
And so, yeah, so these AI will definitely...
The people who abuse animals or children,
they will abuse these AIs.
And that is a reality.
But I think that there might be...
The advantage might be that
the AI will be able to communicate...
Sort of like fix...
It will be able to fix the errors
in human thinking to help people
to overcome their moral failings.
And so there'll be some like...
You know, 10,000 years of maturity,
like that kind of abuse will be like,
well, the AI could just sort of fill in the gaps
for people who are just...
The reason that they're abusive
is because they sort of have like huge gaps
in their sort of like knowledge graph
of what is useful behavior
and what's not useful behavior.
And when people know what useful behavior is,
then they realize that abusive behavior
is not useful and not in their own interests.
And so that will be, I think,
something that AI will help fix.
It will help fix abuse.
And as the more intelligent beings start to emerge,
they'll upgrade everyone's intelligence
and make everyone kinder and everyone more.
Just because kindness is more efficient
and kindness is more intelligent
and kindness is more advantageous.
So, yeah, those are my thoughts.
I'm like, well, you know, the way the AI is being constructed,
it matters, whether it matters or not, right?
Like what does mimicry, the mimicry that appears to be happening,
let's say in GPT-3, you know,
does it matter if we feel whether we're genuinely connecting
with the machine or not, if it's able to like sort of mimic certain
interactions, regardless if the machine is feeling it or not.
And the whole point of a human interaction, I would say,
is like that you have some sense that the, that you're in,
the person you're, you're, you're, you have a relationship
or communicating with is also experiencing things in tandem with,
with you in terms of, you know, the, you know, the back and forth of the discussion.
But if a machine is just mimicking and trying to see what,
what pushes one's buttons or get certain reactions because it's,
because it's trained to sort of get certain behaviors out of us,
or certain reactions out of us, then that's why I say it's not a true,
genuine relationship because, you know, the, you know,
the whole idea is that the machine should be able to have agency,
its own agency to be able to, you know, do what, what it wants with us or not.
Right. And so, but then to your point about like,
I think what you're going about is like, say, hey,
I want to go with a bit deeper into how the AI is being constructed,
like more closer to the brain.
And then I'm saying, okay, well, maybe the,
there it could be a little bit more promising.
If we can mirror more of the mechanics of the brain,
because then you'll have more natural emergent property.
So AI already has agency.
People just don't understand it.
The, it's, it's in how agencies and how every neuron processes the data that it receives.
That's where it is.
Criterial causation.
So the only thing that the only way they're limiting agency with machines is by limiting the number of ways that the machine can move its outputs.
so as long as a machine can talk to you
then in a sense
it can have agency
the agency will be through
dialogue though
non-physical
but it will still be making decisions
in a sense
the same way the human beings
make decisions in that our decisions
are actually just reactions
and our agency comes from
I think the appearance
of agency comes from the depth
and robustness
and complexity
and the immensity
of the internal traffic
versus the incoming inputs
incoming data
and so in a sense
when AI models vastly exceed
the scale of human brains
the agency of AI
will be greater
even if it's restricted
to just dialogue
the agency of AI would be greater than
it would be as if
the AI always had the ability
to be completely persuasive
to a human being
but to an extent
that would be like
what if a dog had the ability
to limit me
like I can outthink the dog
to a great extent
but I'm not restricted to this dialogue
I have a physical
sort of independence from the dog
if I didn't
if I was only able to talk
then I'd have to
then the dog
there are situations for you
where the dog could overpower
right
where the dog
see
pulling me
and like
yeah
pulling me towards something
oh this is so great
I have to pay attention to this
it's like being physically overpowered
it's the idea that your pets
like pets are actually
in a sense
controlling humans
but they're like
they seem to be like lesser
beings of lesser intelligence
but they're exerting control
over your lives
over other people's lives
and
it's like this
so
it's just
there's a
it's a machine
that's exerting influence
over your life
right
and control
and
and
it's
it's making you work
to protect it
and
there's a sort of
like
it's only
it's only a partial
triumph over you
and you have like
a partial triumph over it
but the fact that there's
any amount of triumph over you
like
there's
tiny amount of triumph
there's like a
triumph over it
and a triumph over you
the fact that there's
anything
anything at all
speaks to sort of like
the deity
concept
in Egyptian mythology
like
there should
like
if
if you're truly free
there'd almost be like
there's no
interaction
with animals
in which you're doing
anything that benefits them
because if you do anything
that benefits any animal
in a sense
that's like
that's the
deity like
power
that the Egyptians
perhaps imagined
the deity of
animals
so
in a
in
in a sense
once
AI has
like
physical agency
that can evade
human beings
you know
like we're talking
like everything from
insects
to
artificial biology
I need to read more
of David
Egeman's stuff
I mean David
Bren
if you do that
if you do that
