=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0279y Interview with heylayer.com
First recorded: 2021-05-29T21:53:31.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/73ba1eaa-4c1d-4309-8e9a-28253b8daff5
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Thanks for taking the time.
Yeah, thanks for taking the time.
Wonderful.
I just connected with, I mean, yesterday she said you should speak to Micah.
I guess we're kind of in similar NFC space.
I just wanted to find out a little bit about you.
So we're just doing, we're part of this accelerator, and we were given a challenge to interview 20 people by Monday night.
So we're kind of just reaching out to people in different spaces to do a little, you know, survey.
So I shouldn't think that's the questions.
So, yeah, like I said, we're doing some research on sort of minting NFTs.
So before we start, can you just tell us a little bit about yourself and what you're doing?
Okay, well, so I've interviewed, I've gone to, in terms of,
I think what Anini said is not, I have to say a little bit more compared to what she said.
So I've gone to a lot of blockchain conferences.
You know, I've been to, I've written a lot about blockchain.
I've interviewed Vitalik Buterin and a lot of really exciting people in the blockchain space.
But I am a WebXR programmer.
So I write 3D programs.
I use, I'm really good at JavaScript.
I'm really good with A-Frame.
And I use, I use tools like the WebXR API and 3JS to make really exciting augmented reality and virtual reality programs.
So you've heard of like Decentraland or CryptoVoxel?
He's our CTO, yeah.
Yeah, I'm, I'm probably going to be nodding more on these.
Yeah, and there's also CryptoVoxels.
And so originally Decentraland started out with A-Frame and then they switched to Babylon and now they're, I think they're running in Unity.
CryptoVoxels is, I'm not sure what they're doing right now.
I don't know if they're using 3JS or what.
But there's a, there's a, there's a handful, a really small handful of VR companies that, you know, are doing this sort of, you know, NFTs and, and the metaverse.
And so when I heard about your project, I immediately thought, oh, this sounds like a, you know, NFTs on Dropbox.
This sounds really interesting.
And I, my particular angle on that is, is writing ARVR stuff.
And, and in addition, I've also written brain computer interface stuff.
I'm not yet sure how the brain computer interface stuff would, would connect to NFTs.
So it's not, I won't, it won't be a major focus.
But, but, but I guess by telling you about, like, there's an extraordinary, extraordinary amount of complexity and knowledge that it takes to, to write a brain computer interface that actually does something that then works in VR.
So you can see representation of your brain activity in, in VR.
And I did that.
So that, that, that was a project that I, that I started and had a lot of conversations with people.
And, and after about a year, we had something really successful and really cool.
And, um, so I can definitely, uh, take a really far-fetched idea that's extremely complicated and make it work.
It's just, uh, uh, anyway.
That's awesome.
Where are you currently?
I'm just interested, like, what is your process of creating?
So you, you're saying you're creating like a 3D art piece, right?
So what is your process of like, what kind of tools are you currently using?
Okay.
Okay.
On your pieces, yeah.
So, um, so I, I would say that, um, uh, the, the way that I describe what I do is, uh, not necessarily on the, on the graphical side of things, not necessarily on creating 3D models, but more, more about being the, um, the programmer that makes the user interface work.
Um, so I've created several different user interfaces.
So I don't know if any of you have played this video game called Half-Life Alyx.
Uh, my, I think my, uh, my brother.
Yeah.
Your brother.
Okay.
So it's, it's a VR video game and Half-Life was this game where they, Half-Life 2 was, was really famous, a famous game where you got this gravity gun and you could, you could pull any object to your gun and then you could shoot it off.
And then for Half-Life Alyx, they created the VR version.
You could, you, you, they give you VR, uh, they give you gravity gloves.
And so you could point at anything around you and, um, that, uh, certain objects.
And you could, uh, you just, you, you sort of like press a button and pull your hand back.
What happens is the object flies in an arc and then you catch it.
You catch it out of the air.
And I saw the video that I hadn't played the game and I said, okay, I'm going to reverse engineer that.
And so what I did, I, I, I reverse engineered it for WebXR.
So we, so with WebXR, this is open source software and you can get it today if you want to.
And I can send you a video demo today, but basically it's like, it's, it's a, it's a user interface.
I wish I had video on here, but I, I mean, I wish I had the ability to screen share, but I, um, I can send you.
You can share screen, but you can share screen, too.
Well, I, the thing is I, I need to join from my computer then because.
Ah, okay.
But.
Yeah, go for it.
Okay, I'll do it.
Um, okay, so I'll just go ahead and do this.
And then, um.
Um, yeah, so just go ahead and share your thoughts with me while I'm doing this.
Cause I'm doing two things at the same time here.
Okay.
Mike, have you yourself minted something?
Have you gone through the process of minting?
No, I haven't, but I'm super, I'm super interested actually.
So if you, if you, if you, if you want to, um, get a, a good idea of my mind space and what I did with, uh, Anina, um, you can visit a web address, um, svgn.io, svgn.io.
Uh, and, um, it, it, it should, it should come up and let me know if you see like the first article.
Uh, S, uh, V like Victor or B like boy?
Uh, so if I, if I do the whole thing, it's, uh, Sam, Victor, um, Gary, Nancy, dot, Isaac, Oscar.
Uh, the, the, okay, that's for media, right?
It's a, it's a, it's a medium, it's a medium page and I want you to look at the first article, uh, it says something about WebEx, Web AR.
Yeah, yeah, I see that.
Okay, so if you, that article is like 50 pages long, but if you look, if you kind of skim through it, uh, that, so that, there was an interview with Anina and we were talking about crypto, we were talking about digital fashion,
and we were talking about how artificial intelligence is going to enable us to wear digital fashion, it's going to enable us to wear our NFTs, um, but I went even further, like, I went and dug up, like, all the stuff that I've covered on, on, on, uh, neural networks in terms of, like, the actual physics of the garment that you're wearing, the digital garment.
When you sit down and you lean against the couch or something, like, the physics of the garment are going to interact with the couch correctly.
So they'll, if they, if you want, they could billow around you guys, you lean backwards and stuff like that.
That's next level stuff.
It's next level, yeah.
It's all, it's all in the article.
And Anina asked me, she said, well, how, how come, how come she can't find anyone who's doing it?
And I, and I said, well, because, because we're ahead of it, we're ahead of the curve.
They haven't thought of this yet.
So that's, if you want to see part of the future, it's right, that's right, right there in that article.
But, um, let me, let me, um, launch the meeting.
I think I, I thought I did it, but I'm trying to launch it from my computer.
But, you know, there's an alternative is I can send you some links.
Uh, so actually I shared this on my Twitter timeline just recently.
So, like, if you're interested in speaking, but because I'm really interested, my background is in fashion.
Um, I was a buyer for many years, um, now that we've sort of infused technology.
And I was, I was interested in the blockchain space for, like, supply chain transparency, right?
So now we, we're at this project where we are able to store, uh, you know, store and decentralize, uh, sort of platform, um, where you can easily just drop a file with one click.
Like, you can mint, and then you can share, and then you can see how your, your file is being shared, and you can monetize on it.
That's sort of the future, right?
But I was really interested, um, in sort of how we can integrate that into 3D fashion.
I think there's, there's, like, real use case scenario there.
Um, if we want to speak with, uh, 3D artists, um, is that, like, a connection you can make for us?
Like, if we want to speak with five artists in 3D space and fashion, or is that, I know I have a call with Anina, Anina, uh, on Monday.
Um, but is there some, if you can think of someone, I would love to get that connection so we can pick their brain a little bit.
Sure, um, so, so, in the article that I, I was talking to Anina, but also to someone else, and, um, uh, what was her, what, what's her name again?
It's, it's off the, the other woman in that article.
Not, uh, there's two, two other women, sorry.
Um, okay, her name was, uh, it's been a while, sorry.
Uh, so we talked to Anina, and we talked to, um...
Emma Jane.
Emma Jane, Emma Jane.
I'm talking to Emma Jane, and Cecile tomorrow.
So, Emma Jane, uh, is the CEO of Digital, Digital AX, um, and, uh, or Digital Axe, and she, uh, she knows all the fashion, digital fashion designers.
Now, it depends on if you're competing with her or not, because she's, uh, whether she's going to help or not, but, but, um, but, um, but, yeah, talk to her, because she knows everybody.
Um, it, yeah, it just depends on what you're doing, but, um, but, uh, but, yeah, so she knows everybody, and, um, if you're, if what, if your project is sufficiently different or unique, uh, then maybe she'll help out.
I don't know, but, uh, but, uh, yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
So, why haven't, so you're, you're in the space, but you haven't had the chance to, like, actually, you're curious about NFTs, but what, like, why haven't you just tried minting one?
So, I, I have, um, uh, a, uh, well, I mean, what, what I'm working on is so, so big.
I mean, NFTs are part of, part of it.
Um, I have a, a company that's, that's in stealth.
I am going to be making NFTs, but I am, I am there, there's a, there's a book involved that is about neuroscience, and there's a lot of art that needs to get created.
And, um, so, there's a big, big project.
Yeah.
I'm, I'm not, I'm, I'm a skilled programmer and, uh, a writer and, uh, a researcher, and I've done a lot of research on the brain, novel research.
Um, and so, yeah, so there's a lot of NFTs on the way.
It's, it's, uh, it's, it, it hasn't happened yet, but it's, it's definitely, yeah, big, it's really important to me.
Do you, do you think the process of NFT, it's a kind of a big decision-making and it's a long process?
Uh, I don't, is it, is, is making an NFT a long process?
Um, I mean, I, I don't know how long it's going to take, actually.
I, I haven't, uh, I, I'm sure there's someone out there who can do an NFT in 15 minutes, right?
But, uh, it, I think that in terms of, um, the overall project, you know, cause like I said, there's a whole, whole book that, that's not overnight.
So there's some planning involved in terms of what I, what I want to create.
Um, you know, people can, I know people can do like really, like you can make a really simple drawing, you know, like the, like the whole, the whole, the adage, you know, you can duct tape a banana to a wall and sell it as art, right?
You know, you could do something super simple and create a five minute NFT.
But I, I, what I'm interested in is, is like putting too much at, putting almost too much effort into the, into the art, almost too much effort into the project.
So it's like, there's just, there is, there is, you can see a real investment in time, uh, in thought, especially in thought, in terms of, in terms of, um, what you're creating that you're, that you're selling and the value of what you're, you're selling is, is, is, uh,
uh, it meant something to someone that they put that much time into it.
And, uh, I, I don't know.
That's just, that is, that's entirely my opinion, but that's entirely my opinion about what I, what I want to do with, with NFT.
How long does it, how long does, how quickly does it take you to make an NFT?
I have not done it.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, no, it was, it was more, you know, from, so you need to, you're creating this kind of a masterpiece.
In some way that it's going to take you a long time to deliver the value and it's a creative process.
So that was helpful because, you know, there are different people put different things there, right?
So that was a great, I mean, that was a great answer.
What needs, what needs to happen, um, for that piece to work?
Do you see it as one file that's like a 3D, you know, like a JavaScript enabled, or is it pieces that all come together and each one is an NFT?
Uh, so, so it's both, so, so when I talked to Emma from Digital AX, what she did, what she, she sold, she sold, she would sell like a dress, right?
But then she would actually, um, like all the different properties of the dress, like all the textures, those were like, uh, child NFTs.
So, uh, when she sold it, it came, it came as like a parent with children.
And so, and so, yeah, so that, that's, that's what I'm thinking into is like sort of like a hierarchical structure of NFTs.
And where would you store it?
Like, I, it sounds like you, you haven't, yeah, where, where, where would you, like if you'd mint it or, or like, let me rephrase that.
The source files, where are they being stored and, and where would you source, store those?
So, I mean, I've heard, does that matter?
I don't, I don't know that, I don't know if it does matter.
Um, like, like, well, I mean, I heard that you guys are using Dropbox, right?
And I've, I've heard some people are, um, you know, interplanetary file system and, and so, I don't know.
So we're actually, so we're actually, the Dropbox thing was just the way we're actually, we have our own.
So, so we have a blockchain storage environment.
So when we say Dropbox, it's actually for people that are not so technical.
So we could just say, Hey, it's, it's, it's a storage platform.
So we are one of those IPFS.
I mean, we haven't, we didn't choose IPF, we chose something else.
Um, but it's a decentralized storage that allows you to right-click and mint.
Wow.
Right-click and mint.
So, wow, that's powerful.
That's a powerful idea.
What, would you use it?
Yeah, yes, absolutely.
So are you talking like, um, uh, ERC-1155s or ERC-721s?
No, actually.
Uh, so this, this is, it's great that you're bringing this up because then we can sort of know where the challenges are.
Or if there's, we are using the, uh, uh, block stack, uh, you're bringing it with stacks, the STX token, which is a peg on, it's a proof of transfer, uh, and it's pegged against Bitcoin.
So it uses Bitcoin as sort of like the, all the security of Bitcoin and all the lightweight of sort of an off chain.
Wow, that's cool.
No, I hadn't heard about that.
I mean, I, I'm aware that some people have been using, uh, blockchain.
Yeah.
Let me send you a link so you can sort of just get a sense, um, you know, how we're building this thing.
And, uh, and also with this, we, I'll just, I put it here and then we'll also send you a link of the accelerator we're in.
Yeah.
Um.
By the way, I, by the way, I sent, I sent an email back to the, for the conference link.
I sent an email back that had links to my demos that I wanted to show you.
Okay.
So maybe Alec can forward it to everybody.
So what is it, because this is more of like a research session, what is it about what I said that got you excited?
Um, the, the, uh, so I, I'm, I'm really interested in being able to, uh, you know, create an NFT and, and store it with the click.
That's, that's, that's, you've simple, you've simplified a lot of things.
Um, I could start, I could start, uh, I could put, I could use that, uh, very soon.
Would you pay for it?
I think, I think so.
Yeah.
If it was, it's, it's all about the value proposition, right?
So, yeah.
So I think so.
I don't know.
I don't ask me how much.
I don't know.
It's all about the value.
I was about to, but that's what they tell this task.
Yeah.
No, but that's fair.
I appreciate it.
Um, it sounds because you're technical, I'm not going to, I'm trying not to be leading, but storing 3D,
storing these types of files.
Okay.
What are the types of files that would be, that would be valuable for you to store?
Mint.
To Mint, right.
So, uh, there's, there's basically, there's basically, um, uh, so, I mean, basically there's, there's, um,
uh, it comes, I mean, it boils down to text files and image files at the root of it.
I mean, anything you would put on a website is, is either a text file or an image file.
And I guess image could include a video file, right?
But it's, or audio file.
Like, this is sort of like those are, so images, videos, um, audio, all that stuff can be NFT,
right?
And text, like the website itself, the code, the JavaScript, those are text files.
So, so that's it.
I mean, I don't know.
Do you look at code as text?
So, so when you're, so like, cause I know 3JS, um, it's 3D rendering right on the web.
Yeah.
So you just see that as text from your perspective.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's what I'm, yeah.
I mean, it's basically a JavaScript file, a 3JS JavaScript, uh, which is text in my mind.
Well, what about visually rendering it?
Would you want it visually rendered when you upload it?
Um, or that's not important to you?
So, uh, okay.
So in terms of like, um, uh, if, if you're, if you're hosting stuff, so here, so, so part
of the thing is like, um, if, if you're host, if you're, if you're, if you have a cloud provider,
right, if you, if there's, there's two different scenarios.
One, if it's like, if it's just storage, uh, and it's not really shareable, that's one scenario
that, that, that I can deal with.
There's another scenario in which like, if you're like, um, a cloud provider and you can,
you have a dynamic, you're providing a dynamic hosting service so that people, people can
access the, uh, because, so what I've heard is that, uh, there are people who are, um,
they're minting experiences.
They're minting, uh, VR experiences.
And so the VR, VR experiences.
And so it's like, you've got the, you've got the code, you've got the, um, the audio, the
video, uh, the images, and then you've got the experience, which is like the live experience
of it that they're minting.
And I'm like, that's not, that's not even a file.
Uh, it's like the whole, it's like a lot, that's, you need to have, in order to do the
experience, you need to have a live dynamic, uh, hosting service.
And there's no way, there's no way around that.
Okay.
Yeah.
So you're talking about like entering a virtual room, let's say, and that is being NFT.
Oh yeah.
Okay.
Do you guys have questions?
Uh, can we talk to you again?
You're like, just incredible.
I feel like I'm.
That was like the point, Ali, you didn't, uh, sugarcoat that at all.
No problem.
No problem.
Sure.
Why not?
What was it?
What was it?
I didn't hear the response.
Oh, I said, sure.
Why not?
Why not?
All right.
I thought you said that.
It's okay.
Yeah.
I think this was, uh, we can think of any technical, you know, questions, but I, I would
love to explore more of the 3D fashion, uh, space.
I saw the link that you sent over, so we're going to look at that.
I would love to, uh, interview Emma, so I'll, I'll reach out to her.
So thank you for that, for that link.
If you can think of anyone else that we can speak with, uh, that would be amazing.
Sure.
I mean, yeah, we'll be, yeah.
Okay.
You could always talk to, uh, Cecile.
She's also, uh, she was also joined, uh, joined us in the, in the video there.
Cecile tomorrow.
Okay.
Send me the links.
I'm, I'm looking for the link to, uh, to your company and that information.
I'd like to read more, but, uh, yeah, we're very, we're, we're sort of like going through
the success.
If you go into the, into the chat.
Oh, here on the, oh, we're here in zoom.
Okay.
Yeah.
So I sent you the, the stacks is, is the, is the, that's, that's what we're basing
our, that's the layer one protocol base layer.
Yeah.
It's the, the accelerator link is under that.
And then our very ugly, like landing page that is still worked on is under that.
That's not accessible.
I'm just typing it up real quick.
And, uh, because it's, it's on my phone and, uh, okay, sure.
I can send you the email.
I can send you these links in the email.
Let me do that.
Oh, thank you.
That's what I was, that's what I was saying.
I'm going to send it over to you right now.
Yeah.
Okay.
Okay.
Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
sounds good.
I need to get a drink.
No worries.
All right.
Thank you so much.
Awesome.
Thank you, Micah.
Yeah.
We don't want to spend a lot of time, but we will probably.
Thank you, Micah.
Sounds good.
We will be in touch.
Is it Micah or Micah?
I'm sorry.
Micah.
Micah.
Like Micah.
Micah.
Micah.
Thanks, Micah.
All right.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Guys, you can stay.
Okay.
