=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0280y Complexity Worm Nutrients
First recorded: 2021-05-29T17:57:47.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/890a08ec-e3fe-4685-ba2a-c123433fa71b
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Imagine that you are a god compared to a worm. Imagine that a human being is a god compared to a worm. That the capability of a human being and the capability of a worm, that is the relationship. A worm can be utterly understood by a human being. A human being is like a god compared to a worm.
But then, imagine also that a human being is like a worm compared to god. Or to a god. Imagine that a human being is like a worm compared to a god.
That there is a being of complexity out there that reduces our complexity, the complexity of the human being, down to the complexity of a worm.
And in fact, you can reduce the complexity of a human being, down to a worm, down to the intellect at the root in the evolution of a human being.
So it is written in the history of neuroscience, that the earliest beings were, I need to find, the earliest beings, okay, I need to do two things.
And it's 7.24, 7.26, earliest beings in the history of the universe, in the history of Earth.
they basically had computational patterns, computational rhythms
that were simply a matter of eating at certain time periods.
All the organs do is just eat at certain times.
So that was the basis of cognition.
Earliest life forms was just this rhythmic pattern to eat at certain times.
And it was so simple and so slow because food was plentiful.
It didn't need anything more complex than eating or breathing at a certain time.
It's let in the oxygen, let in the nutrients.
It was only as the resources of oxygen and nutrients became more complex
that the complexity of the nervous system had to grow.
Alongside it.
