=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0298y Nutrition not over stimulation Brain Argument Drugs
First recorded: 2021-05-06T19:01:17.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/2ba64b48-8bbc-4b19-bcaa-a1bd0bc05ff5
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
The thing is moving up with time and the body's trying to stabilize it for optimal operation versus a chip. You could just push it to the max. There's no constraint on it biologically.
I'm saying even if there was no biological limitation, it still wouldn't make sense that we'd turn on all the transistors. Even if the barrier wasn't there, it would be just not useful and not meaningless.
Right. There'd be signaling issues, I think, Sahil, in terms of neurology and the graph. The propagation of a particular wave has to... You can't just... Obviously, yes, yes.
You basically create a sub-manifold and do like... Information is virtual. Information like... What are numbers? What is the... So, yeah. So, I was basically saying... I'm in this group. It's called Pure Mathematics.
What are numbers. What are metaphysical status and philosophy of math, right? And looking at Sohei and Katerina. So, to Katerina, I would say, yeah. So, basically, I was making an argument that...
That, you know, this guy, this guy, Tom, who just sent me a notification, he was saying that information doesn't exist. Knowledge doesn't exist.
But at the same time, he was saying that... That the brains of humans are... Are still self-programming. That neurons are still self-programming.
And so, he's using the computational metaphor in one sense, but saying that we shouldn't use the computational metaphor, on the other hand.
And so, he's saying that information doesn't exist. It's kind of like saying that numbers don't exist, or that patterns don't exist.
There's just... There's just... There's just physical reality, and through physical reality, we're recognizing patterns, and that's the relative, and the relative doesn't really exist, but there is the absolute, which is the physical, which is the material.
And so, he's saying that there isn't... You won't find information in the... Yeah, he's saying there isn't information or knowledge in the brain.
It's not logic. It's his argument.
And then... But then, you know, I guess someone brought up a counter-argument.
Well, there's the Open Worm Project, and the Open Worm Project was this virtualization of a worm,
and the virtualization of a worm demonstrates that you could, that a being such as a worm could be completely complicational and behave the same way as an original worm.
And so, if you could completely virtualize a dog, or a cat, or a human being,
then, you know, if you had... If you could, you know, create a working replication of all their neurons,
then you would expect the dog, or the cat, or the human being, to have a full range of behavior similar to the way a worm had a full range of behavior.
So, it's... But I... But I... When I... When I... I talked to the author after the talk to talk to Tom.
He sent me a video, and he was... And he was... Like, I... Became clear to me, he's not... He's not against the idea that...
That organisms are computational. He's making an argument, I think,
and that... That we should get away from the computational metaphor to sort of elevate and distinguish,
uh, in the course of public discourse, what organisms are, and, and what, um... What, um...
Consciousness is, and what it means, and, um... So... So, that's, um...
Yeah, I took... It's not, like, um... It depends, like, some people might prefer... It's just not, like, a superhuman thing, like, how... Like, I... I'm in Reddit, and I watch the chats, and guys, like, talk about it, like, it's the god drug, but it's just really... It's, uh... It's not... It's just regular.
Whenever I hear people talking about that it's a god drug, I'm like, oh, did you just start studying for the first time in your life?
That's usually what I think of.
Because I'm like, if you've been focusing your whole life, it's more like a 20% boost, or it's like, hey, you've been working eight hours, and you can work another four.
You can concentrate for large chunks of time without getting fatigued, and that's kind of what you have to do in, like, a battlefield situation or a clinical situation, so...
Oh, yeah. Oh, you still get fatigued, uh, don't get me wrong. You get fatigued, you just can't feel yourself getting fatigued. That's the thing.
Well, that we don't use all of our brain is a myth. Just... I just wanted to make that clear. We use all of our brain, and the thing is, those drugs, like, our brain, because we need to protect our brain from being in overexcited state,
it tends to go back to a baseline state. So, over time, like, in the first adaptive state, the drugs have this enhancing effect, but then the brain will just compensate for overexcitability,
and then you will most likely go back to your clothes, back to your main state, and then you will have all the bad effects of those drugs, but not really the enhancing effects anymore over time.
Like, the people, so when you take things for, like, this type of purpose, you go through phases, so they'll put your body through weird things, so you'll be off,
and then you might go in the ocean, and you might be up for three days, you might be freezing cold, you might be on a plane jumping off, like, you don't know.
So, like, all the senses in your bodies are being activated, and you still have to do complex math.
You still have to do, like, analyze signals. You still have to hook together the hardware. You're sleep-deprived.
You might have been on amphetamines. You might have not been. You might have not had any food.
Like, it's basically, like, testing the boundaries of your bodies. Like, can you activate that different mode?
Like, and so, I think that they understand that, and they just want to see how a person can traverse through all the things of their body,
and basically control mentally versus letting that mental restart.
I know about the stabilize when it tries to return to base, and basically, the job of the person who's,
if you're medical or operate or whatever, is to basically, when you're unstable,
or to basically, like, fake stabilize yourself, in a way.
Well, you have to understand what these drugs do, once you understand what they actually do,
in terms of the amphetamines, and there's different, well, there's families of amphetamines,
but the safest ones, and I have to do a bunch of research about this, but a nervous system,
which is a fight-or-flight response, so you get all the side effects of a fight-or-flight response,
and you're sitting in a chair, as if your life is under grave threat, so all of your sensory systems are on high alert,
and so you can focus and get that coding problem done, but you also have all the glucocorticoids
that have been released, and the cortisol, so it's important to understand the body,
just like any stressful event, doesn't necessarily, after chronic time periods, reset itself.
It's important to, like, understand what that signaling is doing, and then counteract it with anti-cortisol,
vitamin C gets rid of these, it cleaves them, you know, signaling pathway, and the chemical cascade,
what these guys do in the military, that's what Antoine...
He's turned 12, he's actually training to become a pilot, he already got six hours pilot time,
and he's only 12, it takes 40 to become a pilot, so by the time he turns 16, he'll have,
he's trying to go be an astronaut, but he wants to be a fighter pilot first, so, like, um...
He's definitely doing it right, you have to get started young.
One thing that I regret looking back is joining the Army vis-a-vis the Air Force,
because my SVAB scores would have let me, and I wasn't thinking strategically.
If I had gone for the six-year, eight-year deployment with the Air Force, and really gone after it...
Yeah, exactly, so he started young, and, like, he, like, test-taking, so him and both my daughter,
they score perfect on all the standardized tests, but I make them sit with a clock,
so when they, when they go, like, my daughter took the PSSA, she scored perfect every question
in less than, like, 35 seconds, so, well, I got them used to basically, since they were, like,
little kids, um, taking the test with the clock, because, like, you know, the guys that sit in the office
is one thing, but the guys that are, like, out in the field, most of the things, like, even if you're
doing math, like, let's say you're, you're dropped in some field, and you have all these signals
being bounced around, and you're signal hopping, and you have to signal jam, and you gotta, like,
type this in, and you gotta figure out, like, how to do this, you know what I'm saying?
So, like, um, uh, that, that type of, like, I think that's the ultimate level of, like,
mathematics, where it becomes, like, gladiator math, that, that's what I'm calling it.
Like, math and warfare fused together, it's the same.
Exactly, like a fighter pilot, like, they literally have to do complex physics in the middle of the
air, that's why the AI is beating the pilots, because people have no idea how much stress it
is, or diving, like, when you're, the diving is so bad on the body, like, it's, it'll fuck you up.
Right, the G-loads, and the stress on your heart, in addition, it's, like, beyond, like,
a professional athlete would be surprised if they had to experience that.
Oh, yes.
But this type of training is, like, a very old version.
I would recommend you to read the book Range from David Epstein.
He, um, went and, um, analyzed a lot of different methods to teach, and, um, for education.
And it's not just me, like, New York Times and so on, they, a lot of people say it's the
most important book that came out last year.
It absolutely.
Yes, Range.
So, to keep focusing from young age on specific tests all for, for life is actually not good.
Um, you need, the, the, what you want is actually to keep, uh, interests and talents brought for a long time.
And a lot of real sports people and, like, you know, that excelled, um, in whatever they did.
They did a, a lot of range of things throughout.
Oh, absolutely.
We're not saying, yeah, we're not saying to, to Tunnel Vision.
We're saying for the pilot vocation, because of the rigor and the standards and the hours requirements,
for most people, like, I'm 30, what, I'm 40 years old.
If I wanted to become a pilot, I'd be looking at 10 years.
So, we're not saying that.
With children, why did Zuckerberg start Facebook?
Because he had 10 years of experience by the time he got to university.
So, getting kids started at around 10, they actually have a lot of free time.
I did want to comment on one thing that Joe was saying earlier, um, where the concentration
of some of these, uh, chemicals in the brain, as they change, I have, like, a term that I
refer to, like, the grumpiness or the irritability.
I call it crashing, because as the, um, chemical levels, the concentrations go down in your brain,
your brain has almost like a withdrawal, uh, type reaction, and you become very irritable
and other things, and that's also something that, uh, I find with, uh, with students when
they get to university and they're taking, uh, stimulants for the first time, they actually
are not self-aware enough to realize that they're just irritable because of the drug, not because
the actual thing that they're focused on right now is actually irritating, so.
Right, that's, uh, called Riding the Tiger, uh, in the book, uh, Thomas Metzinger wrote,
uh, um, The Ego Tunnel.
But I will say that a lot is to say less harsh.
Uh, so, uh, so, like, uh, for me, I, I did all things, like, I was an athlete, I, like,
fixed cars, and I did all, all the things, like, I didn't fit my buckets, but, um, it
allowed me to be, like, um, having all those things allowed me to be, like, you know, a lot
more well-rounded, so, so, for my kids, uh, I practice the same thing, too, and, like,
when it comes to, like, math or just, like, installing it in them, I don't, like, say,
like, oh, my God, do these equations, I'm gonna beat your ass, it's more so, like, um,
like, like, fun puzzles, like, the dining philosopher problem, or, like, um, uh, just
little things, and then, basically, like, um, from, from what I read, is, like, uh, this
fundamentally, from the way the brain works, if every little, you give the child, like,
the little small, like, hey, man, great job, hey, man, and just, you know, keep going,
great job, great job, great job, like, whatever, like, and making it fun, the child
wants the praises, they want, they want the rewards, and things like that, so,
for me, associate the activity with praise, and so, they're more likely to repeat the
activity, yeah, exactly, yeah, but that can become problematic, though, because I, I would
add random rewards that have nothing to do with performance or achievement, because then
they also understand that if they fail, they're not gonna lose your love, there's
Oh, yeah, for sure, you gotta do that, yeah, you gotta do the failure, yeah, you gotta, yeah,
sorry, go ahead, go, but I was like, you gotta put failure in there, but even with the failure,
it's still, like, man, you know, it's a, it's not, to me, it's a challenge, like, so, if I
make them go up a grade level, in, in, like, a book, or something like that, it's more, or,
I, I, I, man, I challenge you to do this, and if you, it's all about accepting the challenge,
challenge, not if you pass or fail the challenge, but rising up and accepting the challenges,
is the model that, that, that we follow, and I mean, like, the proof is enough, put it in,
like, my kids are some of the top students in, in, in the country, so, you know what I'm
saying, like, they, they, they, they're doing good, you know what I mean, and my, my son,
he's literally a pilot, you know what I'm saying, he's 12 years old.
Well, disassociating failure from defeat is also quite important.
So, there was a Nobel Prize for this, for Daniel Kahneman, he used to do selection for
military, and training for military, for Israel, and Amos Traversky, but he doesn't live anymore,
so he didn't get the Nobel Prize while he was still alive, like, he died a year before, so,
um, this is, this is statistics of small numbers that it works for kids, but it's proven for a...
Can you send me those, too, if you don't mind, can you DM me it?
Yeah, yeah, or you can, you can DM me on Twitter, and I'll send you, it's, they, they,
he wrote the whole book for, like, general population, so they, they are mathematicians
and, and psychologists, and they lit a lot, they did a lot of studies, also for selecting,
uh, sports people and military people in the U.S. and Israel, and, um, they did, you know,
a lot of, a lot of studies, like, for decades, and there's no proven method to actually improve
performance. Negative reinforcement, positive reinforcement, reinforcement, it's, if you
go on a larger scale, it doesn't really help, um, it, it doesn't, you know, both ways don't
really help, it's a biased, a way of thinking, we have, so, I, I wanna, I wanna, can I, can I?
What helps is to increase range, and, uh, that the kid figures out what the kid is into,
and you cannot figure it out if you don't provide range.
I wanna find, I wanna, can I respond?
Sorry, before we move on, can you explain what you mean by range?
It's just having a lot of range, available of interest, like, if you, you know, you, like,
to have different type of instrument, instruments to try out, different type of sports to try out,
different types of all kinds of interest to try out, in the beginning, and that kids are
allowed to, to go in between them, and stop, and try different things out, and then later
on, uh, they will, uh, choose something, and become really, really good at it, and because
they were exposed to so many different informational inputs, they will be very good at it, uh, so
the combination of those two books, the range, and, uh, book by Daniel Kahneman, like, what's
really, like, it's really, what's the title of that book, Daniel Kahneman's book?
Oh, the thing fast? Okay, thanks.
I think, uh, something along the same vein.
Also, like, there are two books, um...
Uh, multiple languages in early childhood, uh, also, similarly, prep the brain.
I heard, so I heard language and music...
Can I respond to Katerina's argument?
Let's let Micah speak, please.
...the Brazilian tries to have...
Uh, Katerina, let's make Micah speak, he's been trying to speak for a while.
Um, hi, so, um, I, I, by the way, I appreciate everyone in this room, this is, like, a great
group of really brilliant people, Katerina especially, is really brilliant, I want to
make a counter-argument to Katerina's argument, um, but everyone here is really great, so my
counter-argument is that, um, so it's, it's, it's that, uh, you know, some people, uh, you
know, have, you know, depression, for example, uh, where, and their depression might
have, uh, uh, you know, during the course of their day, they're, they're, uh, they may
have, like, uh, uh, they, their brain, their, their power bands, uh, of brainwave frequencies
might be, uh, might have too much delta and too much theta, they might be too sleepy, they
may not be able to have the same kind of memory function as people with, um, you know, uh,
uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, power bands that are, you know, high, much higher in beta and theta
and alpha, um, there are people who have, you know, narcolepsy disorders, um, and, and
there are people who just have, fundamentally are having, like, um, you know, they're too sleepy
at school, they're just not, they're not very functional and, and drugs have, uh, uh, you
know, and therapy have, and, and also, um, you know, anti-inflammatory, uh, uh, medications
have shown, uh, that there, there are ways to help people to, basically through treatments
to, um, to get them into a more functional state. And what people are hoping for is, you
know, an opt, they kind of, when they talk about improving your brain's performance, they're,
they're talking about an optimal brain state that, that matches the kind of functionality
that they, they have sometimes, but not all the time. And I think that a good example of,
you know, um, of, of, you know, if you look at nootropics, nootropics, you know, some people
try them and they, it seems to work for a while and then it doesn't work. And, uh, I think
a lot of people don't, don't, uh, don't know that when you pick nootropics, you also
want to, um, you know, take them with like a, so if you take them with like a, uh, choline,
so if you're gonna, if you're gonna use a nootropic, that's gonna, that's gonna, and, um, basically
cause your, um, uh, uh, your acetylcholine to, to, uh, uptake, uh, then that needs also
to be, I think that the hypothesis, it needs also to be replenished. But there is, if you
look in, and, and if you do that, then you can have, like, uh, a person can have, uh,
good memory improvement, good, um, you know, for example, there's this, I'm looking at this
Wikipedia article and they're talking about the, the super chiasmatic, uh, nucleus. I'm,
I know I'm mispronouncing that, but, um, they're talking about how, when that is, uh, it's basically,
that it's doing this, what they call time stamping, uh, but they're talking about time stamping
as, uh, uh, a process through which the, uh, the time of day is encoding support for the
formation of a time memory. And they're saying that acetylcholine excites cells, uh, in the
suprachiasmatic nucleus so that the, um, uh, the, uh, the cholinergenic transmission, uh, of
acetylcholine into the suprachiasmatic nucleus should support the formation of, uh, time memory.
And so, I'm just saying, like, this is, these are things that, like, uh, that nootropics like,
um, Nupept and, uh, Oxyracetam and Vasyracetam and, uh, and, um, acetylcholine and choline supplements
are interacting with. And they change your, they, they excite parts of your brain and they
replenish parts of your brain. And I don't think, and I'm, I'm like getting away from the, you know,
stimulants help, uh, for a little while, but then, then they don't help them. That's not the
scenario, drug scenario. I'm thinking about, this is about how people want to find an optimal
nutrition program and an optimal, uh, exercise program that, you know, an optimal, uh, you know,
pattern that they can adopt that will improve their brain function for a specific scenario that they
have in, in mind. Uh, and then allow them to relax, um, at, uh, you know, and, and sleep
at other times. So they want, uh, uh, perform, performance improvements that, uh, that seem
plausible if you give, you know, the history of, of, of medicine a chance.
Yeah, that's the one thing that I would say to people who take stimulants is to eat like some
sort of choline in the middle of the day. So either eat an egg or some shrimp. That's usually
what I do.
Sometimes you're right. One is when you have a mental health disorder, which is one point,
and I actually work on developing new drug treatments for mental health disorders, novel
ones. And I mostly focus on like epigenetic mechanisms and things like that. The problem
is with just enhancement of a, let's say, healthy state is those studies focus on one brain region,
but those receptors are throughout your body and throughout all your brain regions. And, um,
you, if you, you have to keep in mind, you can enhance your memory and your function over
a period of time, but it won't be a, a stable long-term solution, uh, for, throughout your life.
And it has been shown, for example, especially through development. And I actually recently last
year, we published the two papers that using SSRI during development will actually do the opposite
later in life. And, and, um, um, at least in mice and also in adults, we see, uh, higher likely
depressive states in adult life if you were exposed over a longer period to SSRIs during development.
So we know a lot about the brain, but most studies focus on one neurotransmitter, one receptor,
maybe two and one brain region, but we are not considering the whole system and also during
different developmental states. There's rarely studies that go from development through
agiles and through aging. You have to always think in mind, you want to have a quality of
life later, um, in your life, right? And a lot of those enhancements come to a cost later on
through, um, having, um, overexcitability to, to your, in your brain will for sure increase
your likelihood to generate plugs because your glia won't have time to do the cleanup, uh, of
your brain. So, and if you don't sleep enough on top of it to, you know, have more hours of
study, this will increase the likelihood for, um, dementia earlier on for sure. And also things
like Parkinson's and things like that.
So, um, that's my, can I make, can I clarify something real quick? Can I, can I, can I clarify
something real quick? Carlos, so just try to be mindful. Micah's been, um, um, I, so I, I realized
something. I think we're accidentally talking past each other. I, I'm making an argument for
a state for people. People want to find the optimal nutritional, uh, state, and that's
what I'm making an argument for. Uh, I think that Katerina is arguing against overstimulation,
but I'm not arguing for overstimulation. I'm arguing for some, for something else, which
is the optimal nutritional balance. And, uh, so I, I'm also against, uh, overstimulation,
of course. So, so, um, me and myself, uh, I do, uh, so my brother is a, uh, uh, special
operator. Uh, I've worked for the former commander of SEAL Team 6. My uncle's a Ranger. My other
uncle's a SEAL. Uh, I'm a D1 athlete, um, highly decorated, like, guy in every sport I played,
football track, uh, martial arts, and, and I scored perfect on the SAT math and AP, um, test
as well. So, like, from being high-performing athlete since I'm a little kid, I'm multiple
time, like, AU, USATF champion as well. So, so is my son, um, and boxing as well. So, like,
I would say, like, actually being a high-performing, like, athlete at basically the highest level
of the size professional, um, and, and also being in school, I think that, um, that in
itself, like, is, is, like, sometimes genetic, um, uh, and, like, I see people that would
do, like, even, like, steroids and things like that, or, like, do these diets, and they, it's,
it's a certain point where you can't, like, that person would do so much, but they can't
beat the person who's genetically inclined. Uh, and I think, like, what Catalina, uh, uh,
Katrina was saying earlier, it makes a lot of sense about range. Um, but being exposed
to a bunch of things, it gave me advantage, uh, over people, um, who were just really
good at one thing. So, I think that, um, that biohacking, as, as many people might think
it's the solution, uh, I think that genetics, um, like, from what I've seen, like, sports
with these, with a lot of these guys at the genetic part, um, overweighs the, um, the, um,
like, the guy, like, trying to, like, dope his way, uh, into being optimal. Like, like,
you get what I'm saying? Like, if you watch the Olympics, and then you watch, like, um,
different sports, and then you look at these people's IQ, and they did a study like this,
um, to, to compare, like, athletes and IQ and things like that, and I think, like, Sweden
or, like, um, the Netherlands area is, like, the, the best, most athletic and highest IQ. Um,
uh, you'll find that, like, uh, optimal diet or optimal blah is, is not as good as, like,
one, genetics, and, and, and two, um, the education system. So, the way that people learn
tasks. So, whether it be, uh, athletic or it be school, just, their learning is just better.
Two minutes of your guys' time.
Background. I've, I've been in research on human and technology since, uh, I think, you know,
working with Disney and, and developing, um, for partnerships for people that are coming into
corporations and people that are 40 or vets, you know, mentorships. And what you guys are talking
about is kind of what we did a lot of stuff on, and me exclusively, because I'll tell you guys,
I have an impact ability to stand next to people and feel their energy so I can help them get out
of their own way. Um, you guys are talking about numbers and biological, you know, balances,
you know, the vibrational energies of people are so dynamic that they affect the ones around them.
So, what we keyed into is the dynamics of, of utilizing weak energies with strong energies
and pulling that together to then create the, the binds and bound those synergies in the biological
realm. And what happens is, it's very strange, is that when your biological essence can change,
and instead of reversing people's personal needs and personal drives for, you know, addictive
substances or things that enhance them, you know, um, outwardly, we, we focus everybody on internal
growth. And when we saw me particular, cause I was the creator, you know, the force behind all this
is the dynamics of re-engineering, um, how we see our bodies, you know, because our eyes only work
outwardly. And, you know, some of these gentlemen here with, that are creating AI and following the
numbers. And for me, you know, running these, these kind of internal programs and seeing the,
the tremendous impact on just the people. I don't care about the money. I don't care about what they
were doing, just genuine people and watching them in these high vibrational energy moments,
be able to come to their, their moment of realization of themselves, third parties, see themselves.
Hi. Hi. Hi. I'm Neopad. Yeah. Give me one second. Neopad. Okay. I'll pipe me. Okay.
