=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0302y Neuralink Numenta Neuropysics NerveGear Happy Hour Neurons Electrodes Mice
First recorded: 2021-04-27T07:05:36.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/e44be92c-c330-4a70-b3ea-8ba5587c79ad
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
All right. Let's go ahead and start the clubhouse chat. Start the room. All right. Welcome. I'm going to invite people up in a second. I am just inviting some people to the room right now. Welcome, everybody. I'm going to invite people up here in a second. I'm just inviting people to the room real quick. Just hang on a second. We're getting started soon. I'm just making a bunch of invitations.
before we get started I think yeah I maxed out on invitations so let me just
I'll be happy to invite everybody up who's here and I'll just do that real
quick invite or raise your hand welcome welcome make sure my volume up hey
welcome okay so make sure I'm sending invite out to everybody okay and I just
So, um, let's see, I already sent one out to Leonard, let me see, make sure I sent one out to Anne, and then, uh, anyone else, just go ahead and raise your hand.
Um, alright, so welcome everybody.
Uh, I'm gonna go ahead and, uh, and, uh, just, I'm gonna, this, this is a recorded talk, by the way, um, so that, because some people don't have Clubhouse, and, uh, like on Reddit, and, uh, so, like, I managed the, the, the Reddit group called, um, Neural Ace, and they said,
hey can you can you record it so we can listen to it afterwards and i said okay i just have to
tell everybody tell everyone that i'm going to record it and uh and then clubhouse says it's okay
um so if um yeah so just let me know if you have any any issue with that and uh we'll we'll make
sure to uh um stop pause the recording when you're talking if you prefer but um okay so welcome
everybody so i thought this would be a really great topic because um there is a lot of crossover
between what Neuralink is doing and what Numenta is doing.
And there's also a lot to say about neurophysics and NerveGear.
So I think of Numenta as closer to the discussion of neurophysics
and Neuralink as closer to the discussion of NerveGear.
And so let me go ahead and pause and just welcome everyone
and give everyone a chance to say hello and speak.
Hi, Micah. Yes, a very interesting topic.
I had a room in the Digital Humanist Club, what is it now, 12 hours ago.
something like that, on the ethics of Neuralink.
So just looking at human brain interface more broadly
and all of the areas that have crossover
and that turned clubhouse rooms tend to do
into a discussion of every type of related topic,
but a very interesting space.
And I think with Neuralink being, I guess, more evasive
and having grander ambitions
than a lot of the other sort of external devices
and ultimately looking at producing feedback
and also augmentation for healthy humans,
not just their shorter-term ambition to treat illness and disability.
It's a very interesting space and it seems to be a real crossover
between biotech, AI, other computational tech,
as well as surgical work and even animal research.
So really touching on lots of parts of advanced science at the moment
and a good illustration in my mind of convergence.
So I'm very interested in what other people have to say on the topic.
Thanks. I'm David. I'm done speaking.
Wonderful. Wonderful.
Katerina, do you want to go next?
Thanks for having me.
Yeah, I'm a neuroscientist,
So I do, um, um, so my main expertise is actually electrophysiology and in vivo and in vitro
recordings, slice recordings, and imaging.
Um, and, um, yeah, that's why I'm very interested in, um, in the topic for human application.
So thanks for having me in the room when I'm done speaking.
Thanks.
Wonderful.
Thank you.
and our next speakers
Jose, do you want to go
and then Dave and then Kenneth
sure, sure
so I'm a machine learning engineer
at a company
we are working on a clean energy
smart grid and so on
however most of my background
have been in healthcare
I've worked in genomics
and also on clinical trial
and so on
so yeah
I haven't worked directly
on EEG signals and so on. However, many techniques that I use in machine learning actually apply
in those.
And Dave?
Good morning from Malaysia. I'm Dave. My background is on fashion design, also computer science.
So I have a very diverse interest and I'm here to observe the advancement of the technology and
also i'm in the journey to searching of the balance between technology and human touch
for the society thanks i'm done speaking davia i get it hi my name is ken granville i prefer to be
called ken my company for the past decade we've been focused on creating a system that bridges the
gap between how humans think and how we express ideas how we communicate and how that translates
into machine behaviors and some of the things we focused on aside from patents relating to signal
processing that allows us to more precisely and efficiently process large amounts of data
and map that data to semantics such that we can produce code, generate code.
That's also highly efficient.
We've also focused on creating what some would agree is equivalent to the periodic chart
or the periodic table with elements that allow you to essentially understand
what things are made of and composed of.
And so our equivalent to that is a semantic periodic chart for computing, where we have 256 elements that map meaning units to what humans express, whether it's words or gestures or typing text or any signal data, basically, such that we can then in real time competitively generate highly parallelized code.
The benefit being the ability to see the machine produce results and have that correlating to what you actually meant, which you can validate.
So we call that part natural language dialogue.
So it's quite a complex and long project that's culminating in some products coming to market this year.
So, Ken Granville, I'm done talking.
Thank you, Ken.
Frank, do you want to say something?
Yeah, sure. Yeah, thanks, Micah. So you're always interested in your rooms. It's like drinking from a fire hose. So for me, I mean, my interest in this topic is essentially connect to my fascination with brain, how it functions and my take on my angles approaches the have a background in a have a broad background, breath better than depth.
I consider myself a material engineer
so macroscopic
and going towards
microscopic hopefully
and see how that
interface with the brain
be it
electrodes or
drug delivery
or you know
the
wearables
especially flexible
substrate electronics
and, yeah, things like that, also new materials.
Also, I also take a philosophical approach
as I consider myself also had a training in, you know, mathematics
and all that, doing modeling, and I can contribute,
you know, bring all, you know, different fields of concepts
and contribute, yeah.
Yeah, thanks again.
Thank you very much.
Hi, I'm Chitrita. I'm currently a PhD scholar and I'm working on using applying rather machine learning, mostly statistics to solving.
Problems related to cancer prognosis and prediction and to make light detection cheaper with liquid biopsy, discover better biomarkers and gene panels for liquid biopsy with machine learning.
I'm very much interested in the working of the brain as well and I think that
understanding how the brain works can can be maybe a key to developing better
AI better architectures there's just interest and I'm not like really well
versed in that but really interested thank you so wonderful thank you everybody
for introducing yourselves. I'm glad you're all here. So I'll go ahead and start by introducing
what I think is the major link between Numenta and Neuralink, but I want to also sort of like
give a brief description about what each of them is, just a very general description. I know some
people have heard a lot and some people have heard a little. So the big focus, the big research
focus at NMENTA. I guess recently we've been hearing a lot about cortical columns. So there
is a researcher called Vernon Mountcastle who proposed that the neocortex was made up
of basically identical cortical columns everywhere and that these cortical columns are helping
to organize the information in the brain.
And so what Nemento is saying is like,
okay, well, we have this idea.
The idea is reference frames.
And the idea is reference frame is similar
to the relationship described between grid cells
and place cells in the enterendo cortex.
And the idea is that when you have an object
in the room with you,
that object might be tracked by at least one, let's say it's your phone, the ED analogy is
your phone, because usually if you're using Clubhouse, you have a phone, right? So you've
got, you probably have at least one, maybe thousands of cortical columns that are each
rendering a visual representation of your phone. That's one of the ideas here. But you would also
have and i and i asked jeff hawkins this and when he came to clubhouse i said but you would also have
like probably a thousand uh representations of the phone in your audio cortex which are would
be based on audio representations of what your sounds your phone might make if you if you bang
it on a table or uh if you if you scratch it with your finger um and then you might have a thousand
representations of of the um of how your phone feels uh based on where you put your finger
and that would be in your somatosensory cortex.
And then you'd have the representations
in each of your primary sensory cortices
would be voting basically,
I guess if the phone is predicted many times
in your somatosensory cortex,
in your visual cortex,
and your audio cortex,
the thousands of different cortical columns
that are each representing a version of your phone
will eventually vote on some version of your phone
that is accurate enough
and then you don't need a thousand representations
in each part of your sensory cortex.
So in that case,
I guess they would just compress down to one
but the key thing is
a lot of people don't know
that the columns themselves are not multimodal,
but the audio representation of your phone
is going to be linked to the visual representation
of your phone and the somatosensory representation
of your phone so that you could trigger
the visual activity that correlates
with audio activity from the visual cortex
or vice versa, from the audio cortex.
So that's interesting because what we're talking about
is that the representations of what you can see, hear, and feel are basically in the cortical
columns. And this is what can be reached. The cortical columns can be reached, of course,
with, you know, like the Utah Ray, I guess. But there's different, you know, you can stick
electrodes in the brain and stuff like that but but but specifically um uh neuralink is coming
along with with uh really some advanced hardware that um you know when you have when they're doing
things that are light years ahead of the utah array in terms of like by putting 16 different
electrodes on each of the uh um hairs i say hairs it's not really hair each of the sensor strands
um that means that uh you so imagine i guess i like to describe this as like imagine that
you um you have a completely dark room and each electrode represents a microphone and so if you
drop in uh three different microphones then you could potentially uh begin to triangulate where
where sound is coming from where where spike is coming from potentially um but but but even even
then like it's like you might think that because because a neuron can spike from different places
you might think that um the same neuron is actually more than one neurons or you might
think that um that two neurons are actually one neuron because you don't have enough uh information
with just three uh electrodes to really try and give it where where that um spike is coming from
and um and and uh and to make sure that it's just coming from uh your so it's a lot harder to do
imaging medical imaging when you just have three electrodes so now we have 16 electrodes for each
of those strands and then we have you know i guess hundreds of strands you know so it adds up to like
right now it's like it's like uh 3 000 uh electrodes in in one area or something like that
and i guess i i i um but but what what's cool about that is that your ability to develop an
accurate spatial resolution of what neuron is firing and where it's firing, and sort of distinguish
between two neurons that are close to each other, and also figure out when it's the same neuron
that's firing in different places, that is going to really improve a lot. And so I asked,
what I asked, I got to ask Subutaw, who works with Jeff Hawking, yesterday, I said,
so do you think Neuralink devices would be able to decode cortical columns? And would that lead
to decoding basically my on my mind i'm thinking this that that basically leads to decoding images
from the brain sounds from the brain and and human thoughts from the brain because it's you know if
it's you know basically what we're talking about with with cortical columns is that not only doing
sensory uh the stuff in the somatosensory cortex but when you put the talk about the cortical
columns uh in the prefrontal cortex you know we're talking about ideas we're talking about uh you
know you put it in language areas we're talking about language we're talking about words and so
the brain's representations of words ideas um you know high level concepts the idea so um uh what
subita said and i'm paraphrasing what was that yeah if you put um if you put um the electrodes in
the right places like all over the place uh then you could do things like uh like figuring out when
a
neuroimager
the other part of my question is
would a neuroimager be able to tell that voting has happened
right
and would a Neuralink be able
to decode cortical columns and voting
by listening to individual columns and decoding
them and Subutah's answer
is basically yes yeah if you stick enough
electrodes around in the right places
and you
figure out what's firing and when then yeah we
could eventually decode
these microcortical
columns and figure out um exactly what they mean we could figure out the their network protocols
between them and we could figure out uh what they're representing in terms of you know visual
what what images and what uh or what sounds and so on and interestingly i i sort of like asked
them the question well could i like i this is this was i guess kind of silly i said if we have
these network protocols could i like you know do an http request to the audio cortex to to query
some information from the visual cortex and he said well you know aside from the uh http part
which is you know just it's you know you don't actually use http on the brain but but aside from
that basically yes um because there are already examples in neuroscience history um where i mean
like you know basically you hear like think about it if you hear something uh that might that might
trigger a thought a visual uh memory of what um a visual prediction of what you're hearing like
if you hear the sound of a of a of a of a big cat for lack of like a like a like a puma then you might
you might visualize it you might visualize a bobcat for you know for for lack of uh uh recognition of
what exactly it is right but but uh but it's uh it's a big deal when you hear that sound right so
but but um uh so anyway i'll go ahead and pause and and let people reflect on that
This is Ken and that is definitely fascinating to me from the standpoint of being able to map what is an accurate reflection of a signal that you can verify discreetly, not simply as some textual or other representation,
but a signal that you can map to meaning and represent it in a number of ways,
re-render it as what it would represent in terms of something that is an image,
like an image of a big cat, as you suggested.
I find that very fascinating.
And it is very consistent, by the way, with our work to sort of allow the emphasis to shift away from what we use in language, for example, which is text, or in the case of machine code, also text, to something that's more distinctively meaningful so that you can verify it and represent it more efficiently.
and again can't hear i'll stop talking now so in mice we we already are doing that i mean it's
it's simpler but um how we do it is we um visualize with like and when cell mice lines
um we visualize which types of cells are active and which type of context are during a specific
memory that um the mice learn and then if we stimulate exactly those cells we get like
the same behavior or um whatever that memory that programmed memory was before we can elicit that
and actually we can transfer that from one animal to another
um that context learning and combined with the fear for example um which is so yeah i believe
that you know we can't have transgenic people to visualize so we have no other choice than um
make you know grids with a lot of lot of electrodes um in humans so um yeah if we
have enough data i think we can recreate memories and um you know help people that have alzheimer's
and other disorders to um compensate basically for some sort of damage or stroke or whatever
we just need to record enough data over a long period of time i don't believe that in every human
every um every pattern will be the same so i think um to to be able to help people when they
have a stroke or when they have um some sort of disorder that made lesions in the brain and so on
the ideal situation would be that people would have already those type of recording devices
in their brains beforehand when they were healthy so that once the damage occurs then
that this type of devices can just um you know take over and replicate what the brain was doing
before ideally and doesn't it matter then that there's a semantic representation that can be
mapped to the individual's way of thinking yeah exactly so not every representation will be
exactly the same in every brain based on different experiences based on different context data and so
on so um yes that what what really makes that a big part of our focus of my team is that we've
observe what what happens in computing with programming languages and how so much is not
represented there's there isn't a semantic representation sufficiently to to determine
well what does this mean in in context of of the the code writer or the the person who had the
the idea or what they were trying to achieve you know so being able to on a very granular level
capture that meaning and represent it semantically is, in our view, the way to personalize it and
make it very much more precise and efficient. And we needed to build a different approach to
how the data is managed as well. So we focused on translatable data structures that use sort of
a blockchain kind of approach with hashing IDs or tokenizing all of the very discreet data elements
and the math that supports the machine behaviors. The only question I have for everyone,
because I'm thinking about this, let's say we can map all kinds of memories out and we can
replicate them and make you know people that get Alzheimer's or so remember and perform a regular
life will it I'm not sure if it will feel the same way because you won't have maybe you don't have
this neurotransmitter release in the same way and in the same abundance because you have an
electronic device taking care of um retrieval and so on so um it will be a memory retrieval but it
won't maybe have that much of an emotional um link to it oh that's the question that's a very good
point if i may real quickly uh in other words did the person feel fear when when they heard the big
cat or did they feel a sensation of delight because they actually know the big cat or own the big cat
or have trained the big cat or you know a myriad of of possible emotions are those also retrievable
So you're referring to qualia. Is that right?
So, I mean, yeah, we're talking about qualia being represented in your, basically your internal representations of what you're seeing and hearing being represented in the cortical columns of your visual cortex and your audio cortex.
and what you're feeling represented in the cortical columns of your somatosensory cortex,
and that being a decodable pattern that Neuralink will be able to detect
because it's going there.
It is going to be decoding that.
And then so Katerina was just saying that she's already doing a version of this
with the animals that she works with, with the mice.
And it's probably a more basic version.
Like I imagine, I have never seen Katarina's work, but I imagine that there's a very controlled environment.
There's like probably one item at a time in the room with the mouse.
So that might make identifying whatever the mouse is interfacing with a lot easier than, you know, with a real human being.
If you're not in a controlled setting, if there's like tons of things, how is the neuroimager supposed to figure out what is what, right?
I think you'd have to simplify the environment a lot.
But also human beings might have a much more complex pattern, and figuring out which part of that pattern is the correlate to the thing that you want to detect is probably going to be difficult because it's a temporal pattern that has many different – well, maybe Katerina can speak to this, but my question actually to Katerina is not only that,
But also about stimulation.
So someone said, a neuroscientist in another group said that Neuralink is probably going to move around.
I read in the book Rhythms of the Brain that these brain-computer interfaces can move around every time you breathe.
Including the kind of electrodes they call, what is it like?
It's something like tri-electrodes, I forget.
But they can move around a lot, and that means if you're trying to stimulate the brain, that electrode might stimulate a lot of things that you're not intending to stimulate.
And that's a very messy problem.
And so the neuroscientist that I was talking to, Scott, F. Scott, he was saying that what could probably happen is that you could end up stimulating a whole bunch of things you didn't intend to stimulate.
because you might have a neuron that is running through the area that you're stimulating,
but it actually is also going to the other side of your brain or to the other side of your body.
Maybe it's going to your foot.
Or something. And so you could be doing a lot of accidental stimulation. And for that reason, he was saying that doing stimulation in a human being might be a ways off. But I'd love to hear sort of like what Katerina thinks. Do you have some ideas about how we might have like a really high-resolution stimulation of the human brain? And I guess we'd have to adjust it constantly if these sensors move around.
so um there are some new technology developments that we have in the institute also for monkeys
that um so the implants i use like previously the implants that i used you had to like
drill big holes in the skull and fix them with dental cement because we of course want to be
sure but i did so how i simulate is different is with optogenetics i'm not sure so there is a push
from some groups to um get it into humans so the the good thing about optogenetics
is that um you use in you use a genetic code and use a specific promoter so you can you
introduce those um into the brain and by using those specific promoters you can choose which
type of neurons and bridge in in which brain regions um by injection location um should express
that light receptors um they are from algae and um by using that tool you then introduce a light
source into the brain and that's how we do it in animal studies to be very very precise
with the cell types and which cells and where you want to stimulate and
limiting toxicity like excitatory toxicity with electrostimulation if you use light it's
it's less and you have a more temporal precise way of stimulating in milliseconds i can stimulate
for only one millisecond and only elicit one action potential or even if i use less light i
i don't even elicit the action potential i just elicit epsc so um which is under the threshold
that the neuron gives this information to the next neuron just i just make this neuron a little bit
more excitable on a specific region of the then right but not the whole neuron gets excited so
it stays in that neuron so that's the level of um specificity like location wise and temporal wise
and the amount of stimulus we want to elicit, that's what we have in animals.
So to fix that problem, I think the solution would be to use that in humans.
I think only a very few clinical trials for people that are blind
that are starting to use optogenetics in humans we don't see too much neural damage we don't see
brain tumors um with that technology so and it's been done now for over 10 years when i first
started making transgenic mouse model it was in 2007 or so so um i think that would be the way to
solve this um and the the other thing is you can also at the same time introduce proteins that um
give a fluorescent signal at the same time so you could also record what's going on in the brain and
we can trace those specific neurons that express this over time um while they let's say um learn
the fear in a specific context and we change the context and see what those cells are doing and then
we extinguish it and then we see um how the excitability changes so this would be the
technology to solve that problem so what it doesn't do though is fix neurons when you get
Alzheimer's, right? So that, that wouldn't address that issue. Um, so can I, what you said made me
imagine that there could be a future version of Neuralink that has, um, light electrodes and that,
that, uh, that the masses will be basically, um, that their, their DNA will be, uh, altered so that
they're, they can, uh, respond to, uh, to optogenetics. Is it, do you think that's realistic
that optogenetics could become like a mass market solution
for human beings down the road?
Or is that just unrealistic?
So there's some push in extreme situations, right,
where people are totally blind and they really want this
because they don't want to stay.
Or let's say severe Parkinson's,
like that you uncontrollably um you know you can't you can't basically live your everyday
life anymore like your life quality is so low that the the cost of the risk is you know out
you know it just outweighs the later on i think at some point it will i'm not sure how soon um
once we have more we could also we don't have to have it permanent right we could also just
introduce like we are doing right now with the like we could introduce rnas instead and and have
like a temporal like that it doesn't actually change the genetic code itself we could think
about those type of solutions but um i think at some point we will be more comfortable with
changing you know the the genetic sequence and it won't pass to the next generation right so
how we do it in mice is we we introduce a virus we inject it in the specific brain region needed
and it will as i said only be expressed in those neurons and those cell types so the risk is
relatively low and if you don't inject too much but as i said what this won't fix would be
the person has a stroke in that brain region you can't um you can't regenerate cells with
this technology and with electric stimulation you basically i if i understand it right you want to
basically compensate for a loss of brain tissue basically you would then need to introduce stem
cells that have these receptors which is also being studied right now there's like spine um
You know, mice that have neurons using optogenetics, and then they can walk again, basically.
Before I say anything else, I want to give the three new speakers on the stage, Zoc, I might be mispronouncing your name, Carrie and Riesam, all of you can take a turn.
Hi, I'm Soch. I'm from Mexico and I'm a genomic science student and I'm extremely interested in the brain.
I think it's like literally the most amazing machine in the universe.
Like, yeah, it's really amazing. And I would really love to channel my career towards neuroscience.
So this is a really interesting topic for me, and I was actually going to mention also early on the discussion optogenomics, but Catalina also mentioned it, so, well, it's not that necessary now, but thanks.
Carrie, if you want to say anything.
yeah hi guys um kerry here um thanks for having me up i also wanted to second what katarina was
talking about in um in optogenetics and that's why i put my hand up but she's pretty covered a lot i
think that one of the other things is just that ability with optogenetics to actually identify
neuronal circuits. So just as a means of gathering that sort of base data that we're going to need
to be able to start actually manipulating these networks, I think, you know, is incredibly
important. And that might be something that takes a long time. But I think with AI and
other technologies, and, you know, it could be, you know, more exponential than we expect.
yeah so
That's what I wanted to add. Thank you.
And are we, Sam?
Yeah, I've been kind of, we had a good conversation the other night on the app in a different room talking about Hawkins' theory and how it relates to the stimulation and that.
And I've been kind of pondering it over, trying to, from the position of, you know, let's say the theory is correct, and how does that really end up connecting with neuroscience and, you know, what needs to happen next and BCIs.
um but uh yeah i won't dive down that rabbit hole i do have some you know kind of deeper concerns
with the problem at hand but um i was just kind of building off of the conversation about optogenetics
um you know it's uh there's there's some serious limitations with that and in humans in my opinion
you know none of the transgenic techniques or anything like that that are real robust in animals
are something to even think about in humans so we're we're down to thinking about you know viral
using viruses to express these options and neurons and you know it's interesting with it
how targeted that kind of thing could be but you know right now we're very bad at these things
when it comes to getting them across the blood brain barrier so we're talking about a very invasive
local injection that would need to happen um which is you know i mean as an alternative to
a full-on neurosurgery that sounds like a good uh alternative but it that's you know something
that would need to happen and you know to kind of point at the deeper problems here um you know
these the a lot of these virally expressed opsins they only last for a certain amount of time so
So the question is, the real question is, even if you did get good at doing that and you could do it safely in humans, what is it that you're going to do with it?
Because you're going to have a small time window.
It's not like you're going to be able to monitor and stimulate these neurons for life, right?
So we need to understand what it's going to take to open up plasticity mechanisms.
uh and it's going to need to be paired with therapies we need to understand how movement
is related to what cortical columns are processing and incorporate that into our therapies uh you
know combined with stimulation and maybe stimuli um but there's just uh you know there's there's a
lot of big deeper problems in between that being useful and and even you know uh getting it to work
and practice.
Anyone can go.
Yeah, may I ask a question?
I'm Dave here.
If I understand you correctly, Katerina,
that you already can achieve the full duplex,
that means you can read the signal
and yet you can stimulate the signal to the mice.
So in this case, did it ever trigger you
that a certain action or certain things
that can be already stimulated from the universe
uh to the object so are we reading the signal from the uh object or the the the subject itself
or is it a signal that is broadcast from the universe that is the first question the second
question will be a human is a more complicated um creatures that we can relearn and reassociate
the whole experience or things,
when this action is triggered,
the association of the brain signal and metrics
might be changed and relocated to other locations.
Did you already having a study into that direction?
I'm done speaking, Dave here.
So if I understand, so the signals,
so when it's okay so there are different ways of studying the signals of brain in vivo
when we use um like calcium imaging or these um engram transgenic mice that
those are fluorescent signals uh and we of course always check how the basal
a fluorescent signal is of the brain and tissue that doesn't express so that's how we basically
make sure that we are recording the right signal when we record from cell cultures or from sliced
tissue there's a bigger risk and electric um like recording of electric current or there we
um we have faraday cages around we we we um the the signal is actually really really small so we
need amplifiers and um so we have to make sure that um the noise is low that the signal is high
um compared to the noise and um yeah as i said we have faraday cages around
we can't have like nowadays the amplifiers are pretty good at um blending that's excluding um
noise um so yeah and then we stimulate the cells with either optogenetically like actually just
optogenetically nowadays or with um and see how drugs do and things like that so and then those
signals change based on what we do to the cells and then we we do control experiments of course
always we for example just inject or have like a virus that has like the promoter but then not
the the the option encoded in there but something else like let's say just gfp or something and then
we do the same procedure and then if we don't see a signal then the the signal that we recorded in
actual experimental mice should be real so we always do a control experiments we also just
inject the vehicle for example and so on and so forth so we make sure that we are actually
recording what we attempt to record so i would say we use control experience to make sure of that
and then the options it depends so transgenic mice have the op the the channel rhodops in
or nphr whatever you express their whole life in there and the levels don't change so
we like to use those for um for experiments um where we let's say compare um different groups of
animals of treatments or we want to compare different brain regions because if you inject
the virus you always have to make it's it's more complicated because you always have to make sure
that you have the exact same amount of virus and you always inject it in the if it's a deep brain
area and very small brain area that you hit the target and you always are very consistent with
your injection so um that's why to make it easier especially for lab technicians and students
we prefer using transgenic mice that express it in the brain regions we wanted to express
with the virus is different we have to wait for a few weeks depending
on the neuron type and if we want if there are long projections we have to wait longer
but the waiting time is actually more the issue not the issue in mice and rats that we have that
they become deactive over time they stay they stay in there for let's say months of experiments
of course the lifespan of a human is different and we would need to check but my brother for
example he's a neurosurgeon he uses deep brain stimulation for parkinson and and other type of
disorders and those are really major uh brain's uh surgery so just injecting um a virus and
injecting um electro like cell light sources nowadays we have very very small leds that
are flexible and so on i i think would be a less major surgery than what we have right now
So this would be an improvement.
And since we inject directly into the brain, we don't have the blood-brain barrier issue.
Yes, I'm done speaking. Thank you.
I just had an idea that if anyone wants to let the current speaker know...
That they have something to say, they could flash their microphone, and then if you're speaking currently, if you see someone flashing your microphone, you could hand it to them directly. So go ahead, Hossein.
Thank you very much. Very interesting panel. So, actually, my question, in fact, my son also is a neuroscientist, and he also works in optogenetics.
and my question is that can we like stimulate a neuron with two separate basic resources one
for example we stimulated with the photon that you know that create you know uh you know for
the optogenetics and another one you know for another for example so so so the idea is that
In a way, like, more or less, this is regarding the question that we saw brought, that what happens when basically no longer that virus has any effect on the neuron and so on.
maybe once you know two separate stimulation come to a neuron then after after a while you
can turn on turn off one and the other one actually continue stimulating it you know what
i mean like like more like a conditional stimulation or something like that and if
one of our geneticists in the room wants to take and wants to respond yeah so well you can also
yeah you can express different type of absence um but you mean then also then using let's say
electric stimulation separately um yeah so i i started talking about the the
wrote up like option version was because currently the issue i think is that um those electrodes
When people move around a lot, they change their position.
And then you could be ending up stimulating completely wrong brain regions and neurons.
And I was just introducing what we do in animals to solve these, because we had those issues.
um and so that's what we use in animals so um because we had those issues and we want we need
to be very precise because if we want to know which pathway or which cell subtypes or how many
let's say we want to know how many neurons we need to make an eye blink movement so these types
of questions we could answer with this technology to be very very precise and yeah but you can also
use options that are inhibitory you can use options that have that that are active with
different types of wavelengths so you can distinguish between brain regions that you
want to excite because now so many options and then there's options with cold light so you have
bioluminescence options um so you could you could combine different types of options to distinguish
brain regions cell types and so on and then um distinguish it that way yep let me go through
one example so i probably clarify my question so let's say for example i already have neural link
you know in my brain and it's optogenetic you know enabled one and so anytime for example i hear a
specific sound you know that there is also a signal goes into my brain that make me hungry
you know so so basically that optogenetic signal is for making me hungry and then after a while
i associate these two together so even if if you don't basically trigger that that signal
you know on the neural link anytime i hear that sound you know i get hungry so in a way
now my brain you know the plasticity of my brain cause that uh i i triggers on something which is
not uh typically you know trigger this this one yes yeah sorry i didn't understand your
question before yes we can definitely do that and people have been doing that in animals for
example they re um reassociated a traumatic like bad memory uh with a reward system and then the
bad memory then wasn't a bad memory anymore it was a it turned into a rewarding memory
with a combined with a signal so yeah we can definitely do that but as i said this won't
This one solves the problem of damaged tissue.
Like once Alzheimer kicks in or a lot of seizures over time make lesions in the brain.
Severe depression makes lesions in the brain.
And the loss of that tissue, we can't with this system create new cells.
what we can do is facilitate the implementation of stem cells
so that they will be integrated and also active in the system.
We can facilitate that with options.
So one of the things that I think Wiesem said was that it,
so with optogenetics, you basically described a proof of concept
for when you are able to decode the cortical column with optogenetics and then you're able
to visualize what the sequences of neural firings mean and then transfer that to another animal so
you could or you could just basically you could implant memory and that could be i guess a visual
memory of something bad but then you could reshape it by recombining that memory to make it into a
visual memory of something good and so this is a basic perfect concept that basically establishes
that the neural columns that the quarter the cortical columns are are when we decode these
in human beings at a higher resolution we're going to be able to do just that we're going to be able
able to grab high-resolution images from the human neocortex in the cortical columns and
transfer high-resolution images to other human beings, to pull images out of one person's
brain and simulate another person's brain. That would be basically a future generation,
like a next generation of this proof of concept that you have now in a more primitive way
with mice so basically this proof of concept that you're doing with optogenetics uh establishes the
the basic idea it and um so i wonder if um a couple things uh one is uh can you share some resources
with all of us katarina that's like maybe like a paper or two that's really great for talking about
um just this exact thing of transferring uh the memory from from uh decoding the cortical column
and transferring memory, reshaping the memory,
and just a couple of resources if you want to share.
You could put them on your Twitter or something if you want to.
Yeah, I can do that.
I can do that later after the conversation.
I'll put up on my Twitter some papers.
I have to find them, but I can put them up.
I'm not sure if they are all open source, but if you direct message me or something,
I can send the PDFs as an email then or something.
So I also wanted to ask you another question.
So there's another hypothesis.
So it's not just Neuralink.
There's a lot of different new brain-computer interfaces that are being developed.
So it's not just Neuralink.
It's not just optogenetics.
There's also something called uroxa microwave imaging.
I wonder if anyone in the room has heard of that and can tell us more about it.
There's a new thing called, well, it's not new, but it's sort of like what's happening is there's EIT, or electrical impedance tomography.
What's new about it is people are using deep learning with electrical impedance tomography to get massively better results
and massive improvements in image resolution with deep learning.
combined with EIT. So another thing is, I just saw a paper for laser Doppler holographic. And
of course, you know, everyone knows that Mary Lee Jepsen is working in laser FNIR's holographic.
The laser part of that means that the camera sensor is going to be, will enable the detection
of single neurons at the firing speed of EEG or the firing speed of, you know, basically the
same rate that the neurons are firing, just like what Neuralink is doing.
But you're going to be able to basically have this high-resolution holographic image, which
combines laser with functional infrared spectroscopy or laser with Doppler.
Uh, and you're, um, you're doing holography, you're reversing the refraction of light, so you can, you can, you're combining this with ultrasound to get, uh, greater depth, so you can get all the way to the thalamus, all the way to the core of the brain through, so completely through the neocortex.
And, um, and then the idea is then, that's, that's just for the imaging part, so we have, well, very precise imaging of, uh, down to the neuronal level at the, at the speed of EEG.
But the idea here is that stimulation might happen with ultrasound.
So I kind of wanted to ask the neuroscientists in the room,
what do you think about the plausibility of using ultrasound, you know,
in combination with Neuralink or any of these other technologies to be the tool
that's going to allow us to target and stimulate individual neurons
and individual parts of cortical columns.
And I'll pause there.
It's not a topic.
I know that they were using ultrasound to disrupt the blood-brain barrier
and to directly target cancer cells and even plaques in Alzheimer's disease.
And I'm not up to date on that, so I'm not quite sure where the current research is.
Thank you. Anyone else?
Michael, may I ask a question?
Yeah.
The example that you give that...
Can you still hear me?
Because I'm getting a very bad signal here.
Yeah, I can hear you.
Okay.
So if we be able to project a set of action of memory to another subject,
and in terms of reading device, as a researcher,
you are reading the brain signal while if there is a projection is going on do you have a device
that detect that the current signal that i'm reading is originated from the subject itself
or there is some other broadcast is going on so my question will be do we have the device to
detect that at this moment and then also the spectrum of energy if we're talking about the
full spectrum of the frequency from sonic vibration and then to uh static eeg and then from static eeg
and then they go higher to light and then uh is our reading devices uh are targeting into the
correct spectrum of the original signal to the brain to trigger some action and or matrix of
memory to trigger a movement or something.
So, is the researchers aware that the full spectrum
of the frequency that we are researching now,
they are limited to EEG, limited
to light waves,
but do we look into the area of the full spectrum
and the change reaction of the energy change form
so that we can drill into the most foundation
of the original signal was created.
I'm done speaking this year.
Okay, anybody want to go?
I don't know the answer.
Does anyone else want to answer it?
I didn't quite catch all of what you were saying.
Sorry, Dave.
Are you talking about the actual frequencies in what hertz?
How many hertz?
For example, I use low intensity repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation, which is a form of non-invasive brain stimulation.
And we use that to modulate those neural pathways.
And you can use, for example, one hertz to inhibit a particular pathway or 10 hertz to excite that pathway.
Is that what you're talking about? Sorry.
Yeah, if you look at the energy transform change itself,
starting from sonic, we have the object vibrate,
and then from the vibration, it might create the magnetic hertz
that you are currently working on on your reading device.
And then from the magnetic, and then it slowly more intensified,
it transforms into another type of energy form.
So in terms of technology as researchers,
we only limited to the technology we having right now that for example maybe you are reading from
the magnetic field point of view you are reading from the frequency point of view but the full
spectrum of energy transformation that if you are don't how to say to master the whole change
of the transformation then we might only research on a certain area in a gap that
we don't know that
after this EEG
from one hertz, it vibrates
intensively, it transforms into
another type of energy that
can be measured also. So
are we reading at the root
source of the
original rain signal
creation
itself? So if we can
tap into the root source, then
we, how to say,
we can have more accurate
data. For example,
if we can we detect is this brain signal is created by the subject itself that mean the
original subject itself or that is some other stimulation or broadcast that from external fact
that is uh affecting the brain itself do we have a device to read that at this moment that that was
my uh second question yes yes we we have like um we can record the signals of the cells with um
electrodes um and so we can do it two ways we can record the electric signal and what we can do also
is if the animals have either um voltage sensitive dyes in the brain or in the brain cells or um
like a genetic encoded um signal for example calcium signal or chloride signal
then we can also visualize that activity so we can and then the frequency i actually did some
work recently where a changed basically a memory from like i i elicited a long-term memory um
with high frequency stimulation and then i turned down this memory like i did compulsive behavior i
i generated compulsive behavior a specific one to a specific movement and turned it into
into a compulsive behavior with high frequency stimulation and then i did low frequency
stimulation that was known to introduce ltd like long-term depression and then i um got that that
compulsive behavior back to our normal level with it so frequency um matters um for stimulation
thank you that is amazing uh please uh share your research paper when that's out i'm looking
forward to it yeah thanks it's i wrote it in a way that um reviewers rejected it like i i started
the discussion with going back to um when freud first freud was actually the first one to do this
imprinting because for those for this stimulation what i did i i i i do those
simulations in the striatum and the dorsal lateral striatum which is known to be responsible for
habit learning and i did it in the slice by injecting in the sensory motor cortex the
autogenetics tools and in the amygdala to represent basically sensor motor signal from
some sort of movement and then represent an emotional cue labeling with amygdala and what
i and i did this with a bunch of brain regions and the highest upstate i could generate was
like i used the thalamic input because the striatum is the basal ganglia is where like
a lot of inputs that generate then a movement or stopping a movement gets into like all that
information gets integrated and then sends out what we basically in the end do do we do a movement
or we don't and um so the so that's why um it's a very cool model um to test um those
information integration type of things and turning it and see an outreach and
behavior so
So I did that, and then I did it in vivo, like when the mice were digging, for example, I stimulated, and I only really needed, like, ten minutes a day, and after five days, if I did that every day for ten minutes, they would, like, compulsively dig, or they would compulsively groom, or, you know, different behaviors, but it wouldn't affect other behaviors, so.
i started the whole thing with you know freud that said this already that um this would be
important for a long to have a memory and um is to have some sort of emotional cue attached to it
and you know the reviewers didn't like my whole and then heavy and and so on they didn't like it
i have to change my discussion and everything thanks uh that was that was wonderful um
Yeah, thank you so much, Katerina.
I want to explain to everyone here in the group why Katerina's answer also really answers Dave's question.
So Dave's question, the way I would rephrase it, the way I think about it, which is, it's not a better way of rephrasing it, but it just helps me to understand it.
to think of it of day's question is like what what is what is the how what is the granularity
of the measurement of the neuron of the energy of the neuron what is uh the are we doing like
coarse grained measurements um or you know basically getting like like very precise changes
in energy and in frequency and uh in amplitude and and and so on um i i want to say that uh there
we could add more to what was being detected in terms of like amplitude and we can go even in
more detail back to katarina in a second but um the reason what katarina said it was very uh was a
great answer was because basically by explaining that um you know earlier um uh saying that uh
basically if you if you can uh if you can listen to the neuron uh to to to to the degree that you
can figure out if it's about to fire like if if the if the dendritic spike has happened but not
the action potential uh or if if ndma spikes have happened but not the dendritic spike and
and so if you can listen that that's a very fine grain level of detail uh what is the amplitude of
the dendritic spike that's also that'd be interesting to know and and um so what i think
what katarina was saying was that she successfully uh stimulated a neuron almost to the point
that it was going to fire so that it would you know maybe that means that that you know if it
fires in a regular basis like a tonic frequency anyways it's going to fire just a little bit
faster because it's even more ready to fire so when when the next round of signals comes through
that that is going to be part of uh you know basically but then the other thing that that
Katarina said was that the the grant in terms of you know the granularity of the encoding
when you're talking about, you know, like, first of all,
eliciting a long-term memory with high-frequency stimulation
and then generating compulsive behavior with high-frequency stimulation.
So basically making this, like stimulating this neuron
so that it can basically, or, you know, microcircuit or microcolumn
or cluster of cells that represents the neural circuit,
Whatever Katerina stimulated, and you're welcome to give us more detail on that in a second, that caused the animal to have a high-frequency response that resulted in generated compulsive behavior.
And then Katarina reversed it by using LTD, long-term depression, to issue a low-frequency stimulation to basically calm down the animal's behavior, to slow down the high-frequency firing of that neuron or that microcluster of neurons.
Um, and, and, uh, it, this is, this is extremely profound because it speaks exactly what Dave
is saying about the, the, the granularity of the, of measuring and stimulating, uh,
or the course, course grained measurement and course grained, uh, stimulation of, of
energy at the neuronal level and the micro, uh, micro, uh, circuit, micro neural circuit
level.
So I want to go ahead and hand it back to Katarina if you want, but I just wanted to, um,
share the meaning of that with the group and yeah you explained it really well thank you so much
I have a hard time sometimes explaining it because I'm doing the work so it's sometimes you're stuck
in the subject so it's harder for you to explain it but yeah that's um that's exactly what we are
seeing that the the frequency of the stimulation the type of which which type of input um is
stimulating um these brain cells and um in the slice at least which which doesn't always mean
it's 100 also in in vivo system the same way but at least in the slice we can see also that
um the location of where we stimulate in the dendritic arbor makes also a difference so we
need way less um way less um synapses to be stimulated on the distal areas of a dendrite
in the striatum um then in if you get closer to the somewhere then you need more um more
side of the activated and that's because the the dendrite the dendritic arbor the shaft like
not the spines the the the arbor itself the shaft they are thinner so and but the spine
size is still the same so the impact of um those spines being activated is bigger so um strong
inputs of course are represented by being on more distal areas of of the land right so
but i don't think we have to it's it's cool to know um like it to that type of resolution
and it's known that these type of subcategories of mapping of the neuron itself it's supposed to be
even more important
in human
neurons
there was one
paper I have to find it
where they somehow
were able to have
for a short amount of time
to keep
a few actual
cortical human brain cells
alive and record from them
and do some electrophysiology
on them
yeah
Yeah, so the importance of like the dendritic armor and the localization and the integration of information is way more complicated and more precise even than neurons from rats and mice that we usually record from.
I'm not sure how much we need of that to, let's say, to evoke a memory again in a person.
I don't think we need to be that precise for just recall of a memory.
But I'm not sure I can say, but that's my thought.
Sam, did you want to talk about that paper?
Yeah, so I'm kind of in limbo with that lab.
I've rotated with the lab that did that work, the Harnet lab at MIT.
not a you know we're still working out uh potentially he that he might be my co-advisor
um but anyway nonetheless i know the paper very well um so that the basic idea with that um
actually by the way did you want to just say the title of it for the group um yeah let me get the
exact title here hold on yeah just give me a second that way you guys can look at the paper
if you want. It has a great
graphical abstract that maybe
will help if anyone's trying to follow along.
So maybe
while Luis Ahmed is doing it, I'll just reset the group
real quick. So we're
talking about
basically, we're talking about neurophysics and nerve care
but specifically how Numenta
and Neuralink
sort of overlap.
How basically
the big idea from the new book
from Numenta talks about how
cortical columns
may be used to represent
what you're seeing and hearing
and what you're touching
and how all of them are
in different areas of cortex.
All sort of linked together, and so they'll vote, and then that will be how your brain can represent objects to you.
But the thing is, cortical columns are in reach of Neuralink and other brain-computer interface technologies, which is why we're talking about the potential for decoding our thoughts and what we can see and hear.
So I'll go ahead and pass it back to you, Sam.
Yeah, so the title of the paper is Enhanced Dendritic Compartmentalization in Human Cortical Neurons.
And I'll say the reason the lab was going after these kinds of things,
what they're thinking about here is neurons being much more complicated
than the models that are being used in AI currently, with some exception.
you know people some people are already working on incorporating dendrites but
that they're much more powerful that we could look at think about neurons much more like
computers and the brain much more like the internet than the traditional model which is
like thinking about the brain as a cpu and neurons as transistors and this is very compatible with
what um jeff hawkins has has put forth not just because the attention to dendritic computation but
um this notion that uh you know there's a bunch of computers that are connected in the brain instead of
the brain being a computer um so the the basic idea with this paper is uh this there they wanted
to compare across rats and humans and just so we don't like lose anybody that but you know so we
get a little bit of context here what we're talking about is these neurons embedded in the neocortex
and they they uh the neocortex has many layers so you can think of you know kind of sheets of
different types of neurons that are kind of stacked up in six layers and that cells they're
looking at are pyramidal neurons, they're output neurons. So they have very large somata that are
in the deeper layers in layer five. And then they have a big dendritic trunk that comes off of the
soma and it reaches up through the layers and it branches. It looks like a big tree. So the
dendrites just branched and the neurons that they were looking at in this study are called tough
dendrites so that they have a really big arborization in layer one uh near the top of the
cortex um so uh the first thing uh there they wanted to do is compare these exact types of
neurons uh in rats and in humans and they do this uh really uh heroic uh patch clamp technique
when in the rat and when i say heroic i mean there's if there's a dozen labs on that that
can do this these these kinds of measurements uh i would be surprised um and they have they take a
very very tiny electrode and they put it in the top in the dendritic tree way up right where the
the trunk starts to really start to branch out in layer one uh and they put one in the soma and so
they're measuring somatic uh voltage and dendritic voltage at the same time and what they then do is
they can inject currents in the dendrite and measure how strong that in that influences the
soma and and and so so forth uh you know the other direction and what they find is that the
the rats have you know some attenuation uh so they they compare layer two three cells which
are smaller cells the somas start in the third sec in mice layer two three are are uh merged
together compared to a human so they they know these cells that are you know somewhere in layer
two three uh in the mouse uh how are much are are more um you you get the any injection that you do
in the dendrite you see at the soma and then if you go to a layer five cell which is longer and
bigger it attenuates so that you're you can blast the dendrite but you won't see activity at the
soma okay so then uh you know that's kind of like the main thing that they're looking at here there's
other stuff going on in the paper but and then with humans what they did is they have a relationship
with mgh nearby here i actually work work at the hospital there and there's uh some neurosurgeon
um sydney cash who uh will has a relationship with mark when they have a surgery planned
sometimes they'll have to remove some human cortical tissue and the way to doing something
else in a patient and when they do remove that tissue they immediately put it in to a cooler and
they rush over they grab it and they they kind of proceed from there how you normally would with a
patch clap uh a slice uh electrophysiology experiment in an animal with that tissue
and so they were able to do the same exact experiments in the human neurons and the rat
neurons and it turns out that the human neurons are much more compartmentalized than the rat
neurons uh and then so the the question is why you know why is that and uh you know what what is
the underlying mechanism and so what they did is they built some biophysical models that then
tried two things so you know the first thing that you notice when you compare the rat neuron to
the human neuron is the human neuron is much bigger so do we have a bigger neuron with the
same exact spatial channel densities that you see in a mouse neuron or do we have the same amount
of channels and it's stretched and so they built two models that way and it turns out that the
stretched version matches the data much better so the idea is we have larger neurons with a kind
of stretched distribution of channels that creates more compartmentalization and if you're trying to
go you know bring this back around to what we were talking about the motivations for the study the
idea then is that uh you know beyond having more neurons in the human brain that potentially the
real underlying power of the human brain compared to a rodent is that each neuron is so much more
compartmentalized and so much more powerful computationally than individual neurons in the
rats that's like the main thing that the paper's getting at and there's there's lots of other
cool stuff about the paper but um that was the point i think katrina was trying to make
i am a little bit curious how stretched out larger neuron is it translates to it being
more compartmentalized so we've been kind of alluding to all these different dendritic spikes
there's you know three different types of dendritic spikes that people talk about uh plateau potentials
from from calcium channels um dendritic sodium spikes uh which come through voltage-gated sodium
channels and they look a little more like what you see at the soma but a little broader not not as
uh you know way way more narrow than the calcium spikes and then there's these nmda
receptor spikes uh that happen really distally and they're more compartmentalized but the reason
these things happen is there's a spatial relationship between where these channels
are embedded in the membrane and the morphology of the the dendrite and where the currents are
coming where these synapses are located relative to these channels these are this is like the
physics underlying how these spikes are generated given inputs um and so you know you could just
just kind of imagine a tree with a bunch of buds all over it you know there's your synapses and
then you can just imagine ion channels kind of embedded all over and then just imagine what would
happen if you stretch something like that and there was more uh space uh more passive filtering
in between each channel as you stretch it and you can start to maybe imagine how there would be more
localized activity in the dendrite that's isolated from the soma in other words there's computations
happening out in the tree that are independent of what the the neurons output is yeah and so maybe
it would take a lot maybe because it's larger the tree would require more water and the with the
analogy work that the neuron would require more electricity to uh to fire or i don't know
yeah so you you would want if you wanted a huge human neuron to be exactly functionally identical
to the mouse neuron which it's not you would have to add more channels in you would have to
maintain the channel density that the mouse has but uh that's you know uh indirectly through these
biophysical simulations they're arguing that it's more likely that the channel densities are
are lower in in human neurons okay i'll just uh let anyone else who wants to go next go ahead
hi can i go hi thank you thanks for letting me on uh uh is it okay for me to talk just i'll ask
up the questions i'll find what you've been talking about absolutely fascinating and it's
great to hear go ahead please okay um so
You guys have got all the tools in the box, you know, and I just wondered if you've looked into, as I was saying just then, our brains aren't like, I'm an amateur, by the way, but our brain's not like a mouse brain, isn't it?
It's not, has it got lots of unexplained things, you know, going on, like perception, maybe, and lots of other things, what kind of perceptions, what does it run on?
I mean, surely you could play it music and it would do certain things, you know.
Romantic music, I'm not taking it, do you know what I mean?
There's other ways of invoking behaviour in animals and people.
But what about the part of the brain that hasn't been damaged?
So part of the brain that we've always had but we don't use, which is quite a lot.
I mean, you probably know more than I.
but what would that have been used for in the past maybe going back into our ancestors you know
like sort of a long time ago prehistory and things like that what what resonant frequencies
would we have been picking up and um have have you seen any of that regenerated or have you found a
way to regenerate any of that but i suppose if you don't know what that what you're looking for
then you wouldn't have been able to do it but anyway just that sort of question is okay and
Thanks for letting me talk.
I'm obviously a narrator, but I'm fascinated by what you've been talking about,
and it does resonate.
Thank you.
So real quickly, I don't think there's any part of the brain that's not being used.
If there was part of the brain that's not being used,
it would be taken over very quickly by some other part of the brain.
For example, if you lose your eyesight,
the visual cortex is quickly taken over by the other sensory input areas
and other areas of the brain.
Any part that you lose is going to be taken over because it's like a competition.
Your brain is like each area is in competition for resources with the other areas.
And vision kind of seems to dominate.
But, yeah, I don't think it's plausible that any part of your brain is not in use.
One of them was, okay, so forgotten knowledge.
I mean, you have to learn something.
So you might pick it up.
um you have to you know if it's inherited or you've seen it it's easy to replicate it and
hence vision but what about things that you can the brain can pick up on other than vision or
sense you know direct sensory ones um and i'm talking about particularly like perceptions and
things like that or i don't know ancestral links you know they were added they they let's look
head telepathy things like that if we if we've got everything's running on rf there's so many
frequencies and um being blasted around us in everyday life including the phone um have we
it's a part of the brain that's been stimulated more by rf and by um high static electricity um
and for you know i'll show you i've got some triggers as well for you guys um with regards
to frequencies that we're running on at quite a distance as well
and you can pick it up using, you can just basically have a oscilloscope
and lots of copper cable really.
But it was a by-product of it.
I'd just like to talk to someone about it and show you what I've got.
And it is to do with radio waves and us picking them up.
We don't know we're picking them up.
Do you know what I mean? You are listening to me, so thank you.
to hear what you have to say on that i know there's some really interesting
research currently being done around um healing after brain damage so um you know it's
brain can heal a lot when it's in a natural environment rather than in an over stimulated
environment which you know i think from a uh like the point of view of you're talking about
ancestry or you know in our long-term past there's a possibility that we're not you know evolved yet
enough to sort of be able to integrate all the stimulation that we currently integrate and if we
put ourselves back into like a more natural homeostasis of what our body and our brain is
used to then then we function a lot better i don't know if that sort of touches on what you're
saying yeah we're getting there yes thank you for that um sorry i don't know jump on this stage
and ruin everything but it's just i've just got some questions so i'm with everything with respect
as well okay i want to uh try to rephrase uh because i i'm getting i'm getting the idea of
what you're talking about but i want to kind of try to uh sort of rephrase it to reconnect it to the
to the rest of the, uh, the story so far. Um, and I mean, so, you know, it's, um, I've been
hearing from clubhouse that, uh, that, uh, human beings broadcast an electromagnetic field. And
there's a guy who has a new device that he's talking about that, that, uh, can, it can detect
if you can, can detect a virus on your, on your finger by blasting the virus with, uh,
electromagnetic wave, and then that interfaces with the RNA and sends that, and because his
sensors, his electrodes are arranged in an array, it does, he's doing something like tomography
where he's figuring out the sort of the letter arrangement of the RNA. And so because he's
able to detect the sequence of RNA with his array, then he can identify viruses like COVID-19.
And so that's what his patent is about, and that's what he's going to do. But he basically,
he came to one of the past meetups that I did, and he said that electromagnetic waves can
affect DNA, RNA, viruses, and bacteria just the same way that they can affect antennas,
uh which is really it's pretty interesting but um i i think that uh the new the the what was also
mentioned was emotion so this is kind of what i want to ask it sort of ties back to uh our
our group here tonight um and uh so so katarina mentioned that uh so katarina does optogenetics
uh so um she's a genetic sorry just pull to refresh a second there was some bits and bobs
and i picked up on our fluorescence thing with um manipulating um there was nuclei with
magnetic fields i played with can you see the picture so oh we got to pull down to refresh
to see your picture okay so your picture is uh what did you say it was it was just bits and bobs
But the point is the way they reacted to AMF and magnetic forces I put in.
I've got some other pictures.
I'll show you the experiments if it helps.
The thing is all those organisms don't have a skull around.
Like whatever bacteria or viruses, they don't have a skull.
And also those papers that came up that 5G makes something to our brain.
that those those don't it was shown that those high frequency um they don't go through the skull
at all it's really really hard actually to get signals deep into the brain um so i i'm quite
doubtful of that being if if that would be the case we would be actually very happy we wouldn't
need to do all those brain surgeries you could just blast things and people would improve like
parkinson there there there's tms with very very high magnetic fields you can simulate brain regions
and there's a bunch of studies like that done at mit and others where you change plasticity
depending also on the frequency but you need really really powerful magnets and and being
really really on your skull directly and then you can change plasticity in the brain with those
yeah that's what i yeah and just to put that into context that's sort of we can stimulate maybe
two centimeters with really quite high magnetic fields so it's it's you know like
miles above what you'd be exposed to but i think what micah is mentioning the gentleman who was
pitching this i think he was uh i was in the same room i think and he he was saying that he can sense
like those viruses micah correct me if i'm wrong like he was not necessarily talking like right on
the skin he was talking in the tissue right and the blood perhaps right or something like that so
like so so so so what's separating them is maybe the tissue right not necessarily the bone right
so in in that particular instance i i believe he was he was he was saying that you you you
basically put saliva on your finger and then put your finger on the device and and you'd have to
Oh, I see. Yeah, makes sense.
Yeah. He did speculate about some wireless version of it that he...
...do in the future with increased amplitudes. That's, I'll, yeah, I don't know.
Yeah, to add to it further, our lab actually looks at low-intensity RTMS as well, so not just really high-intensity magnetic fields.
And we have shown in an animal model that low-intensity magnetic fields can still induce a plasticity response.
However, this is not sort of activated through your usual LPD-LPD pathways
because it's sub-threshold.
But, you know, this is the research that we're looking at.
But it's still high relative to the usual magnetic fields that you would be exposed to.
So I have a really big question, and I really want to ask Katerina this.
It's about emotion in the brain.
So Katerina's work is relevant.
And she talked about how she was able to, you know, take a negative memory and transfer it to another animal, but then to change that negative memory to a positive memory.
Oh, that wasn't me.
I was citing a paper.
I mean, you know, like the taking of PM.
So in Joseph Ledoux's lab, we erased memory.
but the the trends and we and used optogenetically also memory without actually having some sort of
foot shock or anything but the transfer i just shared it on twitter it was done by by another
um the transfer of memory like relabeling it was done by another um study i i did the compulsive
which is also like labeling a regular behavior with an anxiety cue basically and turning into
a compulsion but yeah the real labeling was done by a different but still you can still
all right katerina is it that the paper in the hippocampus um yeah the only thing i would say
we're like the hippocampus on plasticity than we are in the cortex is the tool is
being used in the process because I know that Kenneth is doing the AI self
programming so it's a tool of detection and also the manipulation before the
projection also integrate with the AI Kenneth is providing at this moment for
for your research and and uh testing job and all this no we're not working collaboratively on it
the our work is is independent it's been a 10-year project and uh this this year we so
we've had a number of patents that have been approved uh that uh underpin this technology
essentially the first patent was was on a mathematical approach to essentially making
the output signal better quality than the input signal as that might sound like magic
but it is a is a an approach that that is beyond interpolation it it literally is based on the
to do a very accurate, guided, directional progression through the data.
So using quaternion math, four-dimensional math, that we can scale logarithmically
using what's called opcodes to determine the direction that we're progressing through the data
allows us to work with very precisely, which we're expressing in our third pattern that's
pending, a level of detail control that is quite significant in its value with regard
to, for example, the ability to very accurately analyze petabytes of data by only touching
or progressing through megabytes or gigabytes of that data.
So a very efficient way to process data, but perhaps more importantly, it maps to language, both human and machine.
It can be mapped to signs, symbols, and what we call meaning units.
And I mentioned earlier for those who weren't in the call or in the room initially, we've mapped this approach to what we call a semantic periodic chart for computing that allows us to use 256 elements that are semantic representations of meaning that can map in both directions,
both to natural language or programming language or to signs and symbols, but also to code.
And thus, so you think of it as being able to pick your methodology,
whether you are more in your effort benefited by expressing it in natural language or a programming language
or a symbolic representation of what you mean,
they all map to the same definitive meaning to the machine.
And the benefit of that is that you can support different ways of thinking,
different ways of expressing different languages, different cultures.
And within that, those elements, it has certain specific representations
that are not present in programming languages, such as emotions, fear, anger, you know,
the things that we use to define our world are represented as elements that can be combined
to the equivalent of compounds and very complex constructs, including for AI algorithm production
to the GUI in an application to processing the data.
They're all treated the same way.
So a uniform way of treating all of these ways of expressing what humans mean
and what machines can understand and process efficiently.
I'm done talking.
I ask this question from the perspective of exploring the tools that scientists use
and researchers using.
So, for example, because today in the other room, Kenneth, I'm not able to ask you this question, that you are presenting the idea that we can immediately having a thought on the brain and capture as a programming logic and programming processes going into the AI system and to be implemented.
Coming from a computer science background, in a conventional way of programming, after the programmer having their source code is being programmed, there is a QC processor to identify any flaw or any bugs or logic problem that presented on the code itself.
So after you automate the process, where is the evaluation come in when the subject having a thought of programming and then being translated into the AI and that bugs or hole or loop that is not identified where they go into a complex system, will that create chaos in the whole ecosystem itself?
that's a great question dave so um again our third patent is focused on something we call
level of detail in other words what that essentially allows for is representing even
in the case that you described where someone's expressed an idea we semantically then map it to
what we call a meaning unit now it can be represented not just the way the person expressed
it, the way the machine understands it in technical terms and in code, which gives
you the opportunity to examine it, to sort of validate it, to say, oh, this is, first
of all, if it's not syntactically or mathematically or, you know, based on a rule set that you
can determine predetermined such as a programming convention it does not get expressed in this
system as a viable solution in other words it doesn't create the error in the first place
you know along those lines whether it's mathematical or otherwise but it also gives
you the ability to expose those representations for examination and validation and once you
validate. In other words, basically say, yeah, this is what I want to happen. And then it goes
through a process of essentially, as I've heard described earlier, I think Katerina was referring
to the, or maybe Micah, the competitive process that the brain does to determine, okay, what is
the most efficient way to implement this.
In a given programming language, let's say assembly code, but also how to order the data, how to essentially utilize the resources that are available now.
And so he's seeking the optimal instruction and basically flagging the winner as the instruction that's going to be executed, and then deleting it along with all the losers because it's stored a metric to establish the baseline.
going forward. So it doesn't go through this process of iterating all the time. So in other
words, it's more than about automating code. It is about essentially doing the process that
every programmer should do. The programmer should look for an optimal instruction,
but because we apply value to the effort of creating code and we're limited by constraints
such as time, money, and so on,
we determine a winning solution for those imperatives
versus what is the optimal.
So in other words, it is a way of self-optimizing.
Think about it as machine learning being applied
to the fullness of what computing can do
in a massively parallelized environment,
if that makes sense.
well then i see we are we are limited to program at the api level because i'm seeing the global
trend now the programmer today is also they doesn't have a chance to touch on the source
and the root so if the original design of the api is self-having limitation and we need a certain
execution to to have a total system upgrade and if the api level is limited that then we forever
loop into a process that not be able to excel from that current limit if that apply to your system
for the AI direct programming in terms of yeah yeah so so this is a good question because we
have spent quite literally years addressing that particular problem which is how to provide an
interface that not only supports as as some would would readily conclude that we're talking mostly
about allowing people to create code but no we we've created an approach that allows us to take
things like apis drivers all the other legacy components of a compute environment and bring
them into a universal methodology for packaging them so that they become like the digital equivalent
of a lego brick so that you can essentially not just utilize them more efficiently
but you can swap them in and out of memory um so that they're not occupying resources that are
limited and and we're managing the ram or the memory at at for for zero fragmentation ever so
so you're gaining levels of efficiency that also accommodate things like what a particular system
requires whatever that system is via its api they all coexist in an environment as if they're
they're like well we refer to them as powers so what is a power a power is the ability to do x
and then a skill is ability to apply that power uh in a a customized um efficient way so so i don't
want to take up too much of the the room with that conversation i'm trying to answer the question
that is put to me but but i think what i want to emphasize is the most relevant takeaway to this
room is the ability to apply some of these concepts of how the brain works to how machines
are instructed uh has significant value particularly to the level to the degree that
you're able to to inform the machine on a very granular level right that that this is what i
want to happen in fact we refer to that as wantware versus software software being something
that programmers write and maybe is the outcome of some very uh specific ai algorithm uh its process
particularly around learning um and and but basically creating this i think of it as a scale
on one side you've got the ability to express an idea which is uniquely human right on the other
side of the scale you've got the machine's ability to execute the idea what what's in the middle
predominantly today is programming languages that are very limited not precise um mechanism
for understanding what was meant was the underlining meanings that support the idea
all right well i mean you can you can think about it this way but you can also think about
programming languages as the ways to sort of like think about your idea more right like when
you have your idea in your brain it's half baked right it's just really you know the programming
languages are in a way the languages right with which you describe your idea in a more formalized
fashion right and then quality control what dave was mentioning it's also a way to further refine
your idea like it's very rarely unless it's a very simple and really useless idea that you can really
formalize it in your brain ahead of writing the code you think about the problem as you write in
the code right so it's it's an iterative process inherently right it's not like you know everything
that you want to code ahead of time it never is that way i i don't disagree with you and we're
not trying to solve that problem of can you codify your idea in a language that can be compiled
what we're trying to address is predominantly there is no semantic or meaning representation
in that code uh sufficiently for for example if you write code um not only would i have a
challenge of understanding what your thinking was what your your your mind uh or your your thoughts
were which led to your decision around a particular line of code but you you sort of fast forward a
year or two years or three years and you might even have trouble understanding what you were
thinking so you've got to go through a process of figuring out what you or another author of code
meant a semantic approach allows us to capture that it through the process and basically say
this is what i mean to happen now represent that in code and by the way pick your programming
language whether it's assembly or c or java or pearl whatever whatever it is it it matters less
than what the idea truly was on a granular level, if that makes sense.
So I was kind of listening to see if this would somehow connect back
to how we might decode the brain.
I think that maybe in the future there's a path to using your semantic modular coding concept
for decoding brain activity and maybe encoding robot brains or something.
i did that uh that's another absolutely yeah that's another another topic for another day for
sure sorry i have i have an actual question about the like the neurons getting back a little bit to
the topic to visem visem sorry okay what's the what's the question yeah so the question was so
so i i like the point was that you know the neurons in the brain they're not like sort of
the neurons in the sort of like the computer-based neural network they're more like
sort of computers on the internet right or like in the disaggregated system which is you know a
fascinating idea like i've heard before a few times that you know saying that essentially the
neuron is just like an off on and off switch or like a thing with a very simple mathematical
function is just tremendous insult to the neuron right there is like a lot more going on there right
and right and and to be honest i mean the reason why sort of like you know we do we run neural
networks the way we run them right now on the computers is because they're just mapped like
what we run map better to the you know the gpus to gpus that we have right like bill daly who is i
think chief scientist of nvidia he puts it right i mean getting the getting the inspiration from
the brain right it's a lot like getting inspiration from the birds to create the planes right like if
you think about like at first when the planes were created like those architects right what they
started to do there they started doing those ridiculous designs where they're like flapping
the wings of the plane they tried to essentially imitate the birds and how they fly and it was very
stupid because it really never went anywhere right we have to think about what our technology
allows us to do right at first it was prop based and then the jet based and we have to completely
redesign how we believe about flying right and really the inspiration from the birds is on a very
basic physics level we didn't really take a lot of inspiration from the birds right so i'm very
skeptical about this idea that we have to have the inspiration from the brain to create sort of the
neural network.
We don't do it right now, really. The reason why the neural networks exploded in computer science and they work right now is not because people came up with the design of the neural network.
It was known for decades before. The first design came up back in the 70s or something like that, and it went nowhere.
The reason why right now it works is because the computer architecture allows us to have necessary parallelism and necessary sort of horsepower to feed them with enough data.
right but but that aside right my question to wise i'm sorry is when you're saying that uh
there is a lot more going on inside the neuron can you give a little bit like a taste of like
what that something could be right like what kind of processes are happening in the neuron
so that it does something more to its inputs so that the output is sort of like more complex or
more non-obvious right something that you know we don't we don't assume for our computer
architecture these days if you know if you understand what i'm what i'm asking i think um
if i can just give a short thing so the thing is though the problem is we waste a lot of resources
with flying how we are flying with the design of our airplanes uh and the thing the same is right
now with ais and and and how we do computing in an artificial way is we just need way too many
resources to do the computing we would need to do to recreate something that's human like it would
be outrageous amount of resources so there's no way to scale it that way and i think it's not really
to imitate more what the brain is doing in order to solve like specific intelligent problems we
can do that if we stay specific but the problem is we need to scale down the resources we need so
the energy efficiency and for that as we discussed yesterday um in another room for that we need to
imitate more to what the brain is doing and um so the the the neuron can it's just it's like
integrating a lot of information and then giving an input based on the integration of that
information so the integration is different brain input so different information sources
it's integrating on a chemical level and electric level and then it generates basically an output
based on that very quite complicated information input which comes from different chemicals it
comes from different iron levels and it it changes based on the that stream of information
input how it then generates the the output of information um i think to to use a more granular
way of doing it um would just enable us to scale computation to a level that we would need to
thank you if i may katarina you are spot on uh and i'll i'll be brief in saying that that's
exactly the approach that we've taken we're not trying to to fully mirror what the brain does
first of all we don't know there's so much we don't know but what we were able to find
is an approach that allows us to on a very granular level determine what is the best
and most efficient way to apply processing to to a particular level of detail that we want to
expose and that process is proving to be very very efficient we we estimate we have a plan to build
the equivalent of the most powerful
supercomputer in the world that now
takes 400 rags
to do it in less than
100. I think we're going a little bit
off topic again. I wanted to hear
it from... WeSam was probably
going to answer that, I think, as well.
Ken, I think that's a little bit off
topic. That's all I'm thinking.
Yeah, so
this is something I can
talk... I can go on and on about
and I won't, but
uh just kind of put it in perspective i guess um what i'm not saying uh we need to do bottom up
the only way to go is bottom up and i'm not saying the only way to go is top down i'm actually saying
we need to be doing both at the same time and we need to meet in the middle um and you know there's
a lot of ways to think about that um but the if you look at historically at what's happened you
you had uh something like the perceptron pops up minsky points out that it can't do x or
they add layers non-linearities uh then you know you move down the line another
ai winter then you go into back prop uh which is completely non-biological so you're totally
throwing out the credit assignment problem but you're getting great uh um you know performance
out of these things uh which is great which is good and we're learning a lot about the brain
doing that i'm not i'm not not saying that but is the brain doing black pop i think that's a
i actually think it's a terrible question i don't think that's the way we should be thinking about
it um and you know i said this last night my apologies if anybody has heard me say this before
But the bottom line is 90% of neural tissue is dendrites, 90% of synapses are on distal parts of the dendrite, which means in vivo, the data doesn't support that backpropagating action potentials can reach those synapses.
so there's obviously learning rules that we don't know uh we don't understand and then and then and
now you know i can play devil's advocate and i can say we are light years away in ai from
intelligence in my in my view and and and just look at something like continual learning uh for
example and then you start to think about oh well there's all these these possible computations
that could be happening in the dendrite a single neuron could be um gating signals uh we know that
synapses cluster under specific branches uh so things like algorithms that have worked uh to a
certain extent for continual learning such as you know gating units at the front of a network maybe
all that's happening locally uh in a single neuron and maybe that's one of the big conceptual
things we're missing between, you know, the AI neuron models that we're using now and, you know,
neurons that are more like computers. And I could go on with other ideas and examples. Some of them
are more speculative than others. But my point would be that we have a lot to learn from doing
physics in the brain still. There's a lot of work to be done. Sounds great. I'd love to hear more
about emotion in the brain, specifically how we
could, if Numenta's theory is correct, how that applies
to emotion in cortical columns and how we might detect them with
and change them with Neuralink's technology.
Anyone want to respond?
What are the neural correlates of emotion? I know that there are some
studies in optogenetics.
well yeah they're different so they're basically neural secrets um representing emotions based on
you know what type of neurons and what neurotransmitters are being released and
the amount of neurotransmitters compared to other neurotransmitters that are being released
represent emotions it's not like we solved emotions um we have like an idea that but even
in amygdala there are next to each other positive labeling emotion and negative labeling emotion
um cells so it's not like that one brain region is responsible for for an emotion and then not
one neurotransmitter is responsible for just one emotion it always depends on gradients of
concentrations and they like dopamine is supposed to be a rewarding one and then norepinephrine can
be anxiety and panic attack neuromodulator but it can also enhance memory to a certain level
depending on the amount so it's it's quite fine tuning um that needs to be done but if we we if
we can like with optogenetic what was done is just reconnect neurons to different um to a
different circuitry so that um then you're the the security was not this memory was not connected
anymore to a negative circuitry let's say but it was then reconnected to a positive labeling circuitry
so
Um, elect, with electric stimulation, I think it would be harder. So you need to be more, you would, I think you would need to be more precise than that, either by using optogenetics.
Another way to do it would be to use maybe RNAs and epigenetic tools.
So they are drugs.
So epigenetics nowadays is another way of how long-term memory is stored
is with epigenetic mechanisms.
and you can modulate the intensity of those memories
or the labeling, maybe even the labeling of those memories.
There was shown in serotonin and dopaminergic secretory
that epigenetic mechanisms are going on.
So you can change by targeting those epigenetic mechanisms
um the the labeling of emotions or the intensity of a memory um i i have started to use those so
what i did was um in cancer research we have way more advanced drugs because there was always way
more funding in cancer if you look it up it's it's um it's a huge amount of difference between
cancer research and mental health research so what i did i i took a very specific small compound
um from those novel cancer drugs and um injected them while um while a habit a compulsive memory
was uh forming and an anxious memory was forming which led to habitual avoidance and when i injected
that drug i could specifically um erase the habitual avoidance of a fear but the reaction
to actual threats stayed intact so um i don't think just by just to summarize i don't think just
by electric stimulation patterns you can modulate the the emotions you would need to use other tools
just like epigenetic tools or optogenetic tools or rna like silencing or in expressing more rna
but that needs to be tested more one wonderful thank you um while you're talking i invited
some more people to the group and
of course anyone can do that as well.
Does anyone have
anything they want to say?
Go ahead and I'll just mute myself.
Yeah, I want to
clarify because there is some
confusion
that I'm thinking. Is our
brain working in an on-off
manner or in an analog
manner? And if it's
in an analog manner,
I expect the reading
of the data will be
a branch of a histogram going into the computer for analyzing.
So if we have the behavior of the spike and the low,
can we modify the analog signal into the middle
and then reproject to the subject itself?
It presents another behavior.
So that is my question, Dave here.
So we have both, like the code, as I imagine it,
or as I understand it and I see it,
is you have the code, like the basic code,
which is the dna then you have analog data represented and reflected in different ways
in the brain you have them as electric signal and then you have them as changes in gene expression
and which represent mostly epigenetic mechanisms so you have on the dna are formed either chemicals
around which represents methylation and then you have stone modulations and you have folding of dna
which by having analog information input you change how the dna will be read and then you
change that and and this will be then leading into a different protein expression and this will
also lead into electric signaling in the brain so you have that in different ways and other cell
types you just have the epigenetic mechanism um but not you know the the electric one so
if you have enough knowledge you can reflect both you can as i said um induce or reduce
epigenetic mechanism and on specific targets you can change the protein levels by rna different type
of different rna expression and then you can by stimulating directly those neurons in specific
patterns also reflect on that electric um signaling so my answer would be yes you just
need to know what how to you know you need to know how this analog information was stored and
reflected in in order to to protect it but thank you uh let me just i just wanted to welcome uh dr
olu and abyss to this stage if you each want to take it take a minute to say something you may
sure um thank you for bringing me up i was just uh catching up with uh what's been said and it's
really interesting. I think if I get what Katerina, if I'm saying that properly, was saying
is that you have basically different modes or different levels at which you could manipulate
the system. And so depending on what the outcome effects that you want to get, you can decide at
what level you want to intervene, which is something that I think about in our own work,
where we do a lot of work with neuroimaging and look at things at more at a systems network level.
without taking into account how things might be changing at a neuronal level.
And so you could have all these changes happening at the neuronal level that you're not even aware of.
But if I'm trying to understand a phenomenon like, in my case, a disorder,
that we understand it as a network dysfunction,
we can actually fix it at the network level and get the desired outcomes that we want.
This is Olu and I'm done speaking.
Abyss, if you want to say something, and then I'll recap the room real quick.
yeah sure uh thanks for inviting me up and it's been really great discussion i was actually on
a listening mode for for the most part but i do have some some questions for uh katarina um do
you think optogenetics will be applicable to human you know um human subjects because right now i
think um i'm not sure if there's like a non-human primates um experiment using optogenetics and
and if you should choose between uh dread dread and uh optogenetics like which one would you
prefer for say like subcortical structures yeah thank you so i i know from a conference that i was
in boston not the last fall because of the shutdown but the the year before um
of it's an if people want to sign up for it um scientists it started that year like the optogenetic
um engineering and application conference it's really good because a lot of really great people
that invented those tools and keep adding on amazing um technology to it um it's a it's a
it's amazing conferences and it's still quite small so you can directly talk a lot and ask a
lot of questions with amazing people and um there they showed that they were starting clinical trials
but for the visual system like for blind people um they they they expressed um chr2 and nphr
in different levels to basically reflect shades of intensity of black and white and even color
so I know but that's really easy because you don't know you don't need to do deep brain injections
um so um i think at some point when genetic treatments will be applied more generally i
think it will one day be a thing but i think it will still take time so for now it's just an
amazing a research tool oh chemogenetics right chemogenetics um i don't like them too much
We have them in the lab, mostly in rats, because, you know, we know really well the mice genome.
And when we do anything to the mice.
Genome, we know what will, we know quite well what will happen.
In RADS, it's a little bit different.
There are not too many genetic tools in RADS, and it's quite expensive if you need more amounts and so on.
But you don't have the temporal resolution, and you don't have, because you have to apply DRADS in a systemic way.
like the dreads is you use a chemical systemically and you only express the receptors in a specific
brain region that you want with the virus but as i said you use it systemically so you don't have
the precise temporal resolution so you can't switch on and off a neuron in a millisecond level
so you the dread will be in there for about 90 minutes the the time of the onset is about 15
minutes so we use those when we just very bluntly want to um we use the inhibitory ones um to
take out uh parts of the prefrontal cortex let's say the iel it doesn't really matter like specific
prefrontal cortex brain region and we just want to take it out while an animal is retrieving a
memory or while habituation is going on and we just want to see what the whole brain region
if the whole brain region is not online what it has what happens to it then there's new it's
bioluminescence which is better because you um bioluminescence is that the brain itself
you also co-express a protein that um produces um cold light either blue
um to activate and you also have inhibitory ones
which has the pro that you can visualize what you are activating while you're doing the
experiments and right you have to you know um do histochemistry after the whole experiment
and see if you ended up in the right spot and do immuno.
But with the bioluminescence, you have the light source expressed
and you will visualize it right away, which has a lot of purpose.
I wanted to sort of refresh the room because a lot of new people joined us,
including Dr. Olu and many others, to sort of explain a little bit about how we got here.
So the title of the room, Nementa and Neuralink,
came about because there's a lot of overlap between the two.
The new book, A Thousand Brains, I read it.
I also read about the, basically, the quarter,
I'd say I read this in actually 2017.
So the main idea, which is about the cortical columns
um are organizing all the information uh that you're perceiving uh like every like if you have
a table every object on the table uh would be managed by by a different cortical column but
not only that um like if you like if you have you know if you have your phone for example because
it's a great example because we're all on clubhouse so if you have if you have your phone
you're going to have maybe a thousand cortical columns in the visual cortex uh that are modeling
your phone. And I confirmed with Jeff Hawkins, I asked him this, I said, so you'd also have a
thousand cortical columns in your audio cortex and your somatosensory cortex? And he said, yes,
exactly. It's not as if these, he's not saying that a neural column is multimodal, but he's
saying that these columns have to model, you know, the phone and the visual cortex and the audio
cortex and then in the somatosensory cortex, and then vote on which representation is the most
accurate or the most correct, and then I guess arguably they're going to be modeled by fewer
cortical columns after that, but you're still going to have this sort of link between the
different primary input cortices for what you hear and what you see and what you feel.
um and um so but that that is directly relevant to Neuralink because Neuralink goes
they're they're sticking you know 16 electrodes per each one of these strands um which is going
to into the the cortex uh so you're going to be able to get not only uh are they doing like you
know there's 16 electrodes in one strand but they're putting in uh many hundreds of strands
simultaneously, so you end up with, you know, whatever the number is, 3,000-something electrodes
in there at one time. And if you are trying to figure out what fired and when, you're going to
want to have a lot of electrodes. So you can do, you know, like if you just have three electrodes,
the analogy is that if you just have three electrodes, and imagine you have three microphones
in a dark room, and you're trying to figure out where a sound came from, which the sound represents
a spike in this case. You might figure out whichever microphone was the loudest might
give you an indication of where that sound came from. But, you know, with a neuron, it
can spike in multiple places. And so if you get a sound in another place, if you only
had three microphones, you might think, well, that's a different neuron. It could be the
same one. Or if you get two sound spikes in the same, or electrical spikes in the same
area you might think it's just one neuron but it could be two because they're just close together
so with many different electrodes you can get a high resolution image and you can you're much
more likely to figure out you know if there's really two like two neurons that are close
together or if one neuron is spiking in two different places and then you can you can think
about you know doing things like okay well can I detect if the if the neuron is about to fire
if it's just maybe like a dendritic spike or a NDMA spike,
you can increase your granularity with increased resolution.
That's exciting, but basically I asked the folks at Numenta,
I said, do you think that we're going to be decoding?
I asked them yesterday on Clubhouse.
I talked to Supertai, and I said,
do you think we're going to be decoding basically cortical columns,
the cortical columns that represent the cup in the visual cortex
and they represent the cup in the audio cortex
and represent the feel of a cup in the somatosensory cortex?
And he said yes. And the implications of that are profound because basically that means, you know, if a Neuralink is a device that's going to be enough to potentially decode what we're seeing and hearing and feeling and potentially also what we're thinking in the prefrontal cortex and also our emotions, as Katarina was just explaining right before Dr. Olu joined the room and many others.
So that sort of like recaps the thing.
And obviously, you know, the nerve gear is closer to brain-computer interfaces
and what Neuralink is doing and neurophysics.
You know, we're talking about brain waves and oscillations and brain activity
and cortical column activity in the networks of the brain,
but specifically the networks of cortical columns and the network protocols.
And what is voting?
you know when when when uh different cortical columns agree so these so these are all like
related topics and um so i'll go ahead and uh and mute myself and then let people say whatever they
want go ahead i had a question about um sort of the the amount of real estate occupied by
something like the neural link um electrode like how big a patch of cortex would be covered by their
current setup so um okay so uh the each each electrode is about the width of a hair but then
um you know depending on the density of neurons in a given area that uh each electrode uh could
potentially detect as many as a thousand as many as a thousand neurons in a radius um i think
that's correct and um and or is it like 140 micrometers or something like that but um i may
have to look that up sometimes i forget is it micrometers it might be but it's like that it's
like the distance from the elect from the electrode to uh to what it could potentially
measure katerina might have an answer for that actually how many in your link i have i'm not
sure right now i have to look it up uh mike is there's a lot of debate about how big a cortical
column is which you talked about and jeff hawkins talks about uh and he kind of formalized it as
like a cubic uh millimeter of tissue and i think i don't know any details about neural link but
if you're talking about like distances from electrodes and i think microns is pretty
appropriate um yeah but what the dimensions of their um of the areas of the microarrays are i
don't i don't know right now do they have it published somewhere thousand channel but i don't
know what the dimensions are they they do have the uh they in the video they um when they came
out with the first i think it was two years ago when they're like first came out with all the
details of it they um they they did publish that information i'm just forgetting what it was off
hand.
Yeah, one of the reasons why I ask is I sort of mentioned networks before, and I think it's important to think about things from a network perspective.
So, you know, I'm a psychiatrist, and when looking at the literature on neuromodulation and psychiatry, people were very focused on sort of what the target was of the electrode and not where the target was connected to.
And they actually found that if you looked at the variability in clinical response, it wasn't because of problems with locating a particular DBS electrode in a particular part of the subgenual cingulate or part of the striatum, but it was actually the either structural connectivity to where you place the electrode or the functional connectivity that was really important.
And so I think in any of these strategies, I think a good sort of mapping of all of the connectivity and the network characteristics of the brain are crucial to a brain target.
So that's the comment I wanted to make. Thanks.
Just a curious question. If I come from the perspective of the ancient wisdom, that I always think they are much more advanced than us.
I'm not sure you're familiar with the Chinese acupuncture.
They have a whole diagram of the point to put the needle into the body,
which I suspect is a needle of capturing metrics
and also the histogram of all this brain activity.
uh are we at the current uh scientific now also capturing the input data from a human being
from that kind of uh uh diagram that the chinese ancient chinese already have for their
point well that's a really good question um um there may be studies but they're they're not that
i'm aware of hang on someone's coming up someone let me see so some maybe someone has a response to
that. Hello, Hanson. Hey, Amita. How are you doing? Pretty good. Welcome. I actually have a
question, maybe really naive. You probably have, I just came in, so you probably have covered it
a long time ago, but maybe I'll just ask my question, and then you can see if it is relevant.
But so the electrodes that are planted, I suppose it's inserted into the brain, is that correct?
The electrode on the patch?
Yeah, for Neuralink, yeah, they're implanted into the brain, yes.
Okay.
So I suppose it's not exactly inserted into the neurons.
And if it is not, when the neuron fires, as I understand it, the electric potential transmits through the neurons or exons.
I'm just wondering if the electrode is away from the neuron, how does it receive the signal?
Is it through the, let's say, the coulomb, the static potential?
Or is it the change, perturbation in the charge field that the electrode is receiving?
and um or is there a current going through the the medium and in the brain and brain tissue
and the current going from the neuron to the electrode uh if it is if it is it seems a little
bit strange because that means that the current is leaking from the neuron so how does it exactly
How does the electrode detect the neuronal activity?
Okay, I could answer that, but we've got really capable people on this stage.
Anyone else want to take a stab at that?
I guess it's me.
So it's an electrode, right?
So the idea with Neuralink is there's a microsurgery robot,
and the only thing that the microsurgery robot is doing is trying to implant the electrodes in
between blood vessels to create the least amount of damage when you implant them. And hopefully
the electrodes end up near neurons. I don't know if they're trying to avoid puncturing neurons.
Yeah, so that is one particular detail that I don't know. But the idea is that they want it
to be close enough to the neuron to measure the actual spike.
And the actual spike, you have to be really close to measure that.
And I mean the electrical spike, the electricity.
So, yeah, so the neuron is when it is leaking electricity
when the action potential fires.
It's like the electrons are sort of, I guess it's like lightning in a way.
You have an action potential spike and a lightning strike.
In both situations, there was a separation of positive and negative charges.
in the case of the body
the positive negative charges are inside
the electrical gradient of a neuron
and we're talking about
the sodium ions and the potassium ions
but in terms of lightning strike
of course it's positive negative charges in the sky
but in either case the neuron has to reach equilibrium
in order to maintain its equilibrium
because it's a dissipative system.
It's a vortex.
And so it has to fire, and it has to fire off its electrical charge
along the axon body, but it is going to leak.
And so we're going to measure that.
I believe that's correct, but, again,
we've got extremely qualified people up here who can correct me
if my understanding is not right.
So usually you record potentials, like field potentials,
And then you can analyze them by the hertz of field potentials you have.
And you will have, depending on the neuron type and depending on the stimulation type and so on,
you will have those field potentials in different frequencies, which is expressed in hertz.
So, yeah, field potentials, usually.
wait so i so i'm confused though i don't know anything about the neural link but uh
is it measuring lfps or is it detecting spikes well from what i can understand that you can
implement this simple machine learning algorithm to to determine the spikes but i would assume it's
lfp but i could be mistaken but it i've seen like lfps can essentially be broken down to like um
like a very simplistic spike sorting
and using some kind of like component analysis
that you can determine individual spikes.
I mean, if we're deconvolving an LFP signal into spikes,
that's going to be rough.
I mean, like traditionally with touch roads,
you're measuring spikes directly
and then you do a spike sort from spikes.
Can you explain what is LFP, the acronym?
It's local field potential.
Local field potential.
They're transient electrical signals generated in the nervous system.
It's basically what electron encephalogram means,
even though EEG refers to scalp electrodes.
But, yeah, electrical signals generated in the nervous system and other tissues.
Yeah, sure.
I mean, they could be recording units.
then you would be able to analyze the exact spike
and interspike interval and so on.
But Neuralink, they specifically said
they wanted to be close enough to a neuron
to measure an actual spike.
But I imagine for everything that they're not close to,
the thousand neurons that they're not close to,
we're talking about local field potentials.
That sounds more like a tetra to me.
Yeah, and yeah, I think it's more like a tetroid
because that would be the reason to have 16 electrodes in each hair
and put many of them in there
is to use them like a tetroid to triangulate the locations of spikes.
Yeah, so to narrow it down, it's volts.
They measure volts.
Like, it doesn't matter if it's...
Field or unit it's involved, like if that answers your question.
If that's the case, I suppose it is measuring the potential, the perturbation from the, so basically electrostatic potential from the perturbation in resulting from the spikes,
instead of the current that is the iron, let's say the potassium or the calcium ion current
that goes along the neuron. Is that correct? Yes. In order to measure currents, you need to be
in the neuron, which you can do in vivo. I don't think that those errors are doing that.
um you can you know patch a cell and vivo but i mostly do it in vitro then you would measure
directly currents and then you can um detangle you know the different receptor um receptors that are
contributing to those currents or or very near the the exon because you do have current outside the
the the iron current outside just immediately outside the neuron correct uh if it is not then
then i suppose it is measuring the potential uh different just the electrical i mean the
electrostatic potential did um it caused by the specs of the well well the exon um releases then
And because of the spike, neurotransmitters, usually, I mean, you have electric, you have
electric synapses, but those are not, I don't know about the human brain, actually, but
those are not as common.
Usually a spike emits, then a neurotransmitter, leads to neurotransmitter release, which then
um goes to the next cell um activates receptors there that opens ion channels and it needs to the
next action potential and then there's again your transmitter release that's more often the case you
have um electric trans information transmission through gap junctions mostly but those are not as
common so so basically uh the conclusion is uh i suppose the electrode is far away from the
neuron that it cannot measure the current but only the the electric potential that's caused by the
the excitation of the neuron and and which caused the uh the change in the iron concentration
um is that right like just yeah i mean it's not just location to like if you want to measure
currents in a cell you want to there's a few ways to interact with the membrane but uh you know the
simplest one to think about is your your pipette fluid is literally um continuous with the neuron
and then you can start to measure uh currents directly from the cell and i think maybe this
is what you're driving at if you're measuring spikes relative to currents relative to synaptic
currents that's a very low dimensional signal like the the actual current inputs into a given
cell or even do populations of cells that's even higher dimensional um and yeah i couldn't imagine
that the device is measuring something like that so i'm pretty sure they're just yeah they're
extracellular recordings and i think they can measure probably if they're similar to other
electrodes about 100 microns from the electrode and put that into perspective the cell the neuron
could be anywhere from 10 to 30 microns in size itself okay so so the conclusion is just the
potential they're measuring right the static potential i mean at the root of it they're
measuring voltage right so right so i'm just wondering if the voltage uh yeah which is uh
yeah because i was wondering whether it's current uh measuring current directly or
what they the voltage uh from the electrostatic you know potential i kind of had a so it is the
voltage right i i kind of had a a question that will pull everyone in a different direction if
you don't mind but it's kind of it's i think it's a good a fun one um and it so it goes back to i
so i was at the the grocery store and i had this idea because i was listening to katarina the other
day in another talk where we had um some other great speakers and um uh so the idea was so
katarina was just saying that uh earlier um before many people came that uh she was uh she she managed
to stimulate a mouse to basically, she elicited long-term memory with high-frequency stimulation
and then generated a compulsive behavior with high-frequency stimulation, and the mouse
had impulsive behavior.
Um, and, um, and then, uh, she used, uh, low frequency stimulation, uh, to induce LDT, um, and, uh, uh, long-term depression.
And that caused the, uh, the animal's, uh, compulsive behavior to go away.
So that's an upcoming paper, uh, that she's working on.
It sounds really exciting.
but what i was thinking about uh a lot was um well what is the role of of high frequency stimulation
and uh and low frequencies um i don't know if i should be saying stimulation but the idea is like
you know if someone has if someone is too impulsive and they they interrupt too much if they have
attention deficit disorder if they have less self-control you know like so i get oh yeah so
what i think it was katarina and maybe it was someone else but i think it was katarina who's
talking about the inhibitory neuron system uh or the inhibitory neurons basically helping to to
fill a role of of inhibition whereas like if we didn't have inhibition um then uh we would just
be you know uh either we would be epileptic or we'd just be out of control and we wouldn't be
able to you know um so the idea is that inhibition is what gives a person choice it's what gives a
person, not choice, but the feeling of agency, inhibition gives us agency. Instead of being
like this floundering fish with the inhibitory networks, we have a sense of control that we
might not have otherwise over ourselves. And so people who have less self-control, who
interrupts too much, maybe their interneuron system is damaged, and maybe people who are
adhd have a dysfunctional interneuron system or inhibitory um system and and um and uh and then
and then maybe we could solve that if we gave people low frequency stimulation to induce uh ltd
in those areas that were really um uh you know they had too much uh stimulation so like imagine
like imagine like you know there's too much stimulation in the part in the part of your
in a part of your brain and that causes reduced blood flow in another part of your brain like the
reduced blood flow that we see and and people who have adhd for example but i mean that this
could be this could apply to a lot of different illnesses i don't want to just like stick it to
add but um go ahead yeah there's a lot of research being done in the direction um and actually
those um those magnetic stimulation devices there are clinical trials going on especially in
kids that have autism it is known that the inhibitory system is disrupted um also in the
prefrontal cortex and um that's exactly what they are trying to do and um what was what is
interesting is that most likely a lot of research points towards that the glia uh in those brain
structures um that um a malfunction in the glia actually leads to a malfunction in the
inhibitory neural system which um then links it to um the immune system and there was a very cool
paper from the lab i forgot the name right now because it's really late um that found the the
immune system in the brain because like before we always said the brain doesn't have its own immune
system and they found that a dysregulation of the immune system in the brain can lead to such
complicated behaviors like social anxiety which then explains a lot about autism disorder so yeah
it's that's a really cool thought and and there's work going on towards that average frequency
versus low frequency stimulus you're talking about the electric stimulus or something i
use optogenetic stimulation for that to be more precise um on
First of all, which inputs I'm stimulating and which neuron types I'm stimulating and where and to have a temporal resolution because I needed to stimulate those specific inputs onto the neurons only when the mice were performing a specific test.
So the stimulant, did you say optimal, optical or is it photon?
yeah so we use light so we we induced a gene that produces a channel that is usually found in algae
the algae use this to detect blue light so they know um you know where's daylight and where
there's food basically and we use those receptors and express them in neurons and by using genetic
tools we can we can make we reduce them in viruses and we can select and which neurons it will
express or which cell types it will express and which it won't and by injecting it precisely
into a brain region we can be precise with which brain region and which neuron type should express
those and then we implant a light source you would usually have optic fiber cables in there
and then we'd hook it up to a laser and then we can millisecond precisely stimulate
those neurons and also inhibit the neurons in that precise way so that made it possible for me to
just stimulate a specific input onto that brain region and that neuron
while a specific behavior was going on.
I was just going to say it's really interesting that the same paradigm
also applies in a less precise way with clinical RTMS
where 10 hertz high-frequency stimulation
is supposed to increase activity of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex,
But if you stimulate at one hertz, which is relatively low frequency, it actually inhibits.
And what people do is they'll use high frequency on the left hemisphere and low frequency on the right hemisphere
because of somewhat dated ideas that there's some laterality in depression pathology,
such that you have underactivity of the left hemisphere and overactivity of the right hemisphere.
so it's it's really interesting to see the same sort of pattern of high frequency low frequency
stimulation of um sort of being uh um sort of recapitulated at a at a larger scale
interestingly to add to that it's um can't be individualized particularly easily so we you
know we um all are more uh complicated than we realize and you can you know you can do a lot
of work finding out and tracking and mapping these inhibitory pathways and excitatory pathways
because obviously if you stimulate with high frequency and inhibitory pathway you're actually
then inhibiting that part of the brain even though you're using excitatory stimulation it's
actually really really complex but then it's also hard to be generalized across a population so
and a lot of this stuff I think is quite outdated some of these ideas of stimulation parameters but
as a general rule of thumb you've got yeah you've you know one hertz is inhibitory and
10 hertz is inhibitory but then it's you know there's extra layers i guess to add to that
so the light the frequency you refer into is the pulse frequency is there
yeah exactly so the the light the blue light um opens up um positive ion channels which then
depolarizes the cell and then generates an action potential and then we have the opposite effect if
one puts on how it puts in the cell halo reductions with the yellow light you would um it
activates a chloride pump so it hyper polarizes the cell which makes the cell be more inhibited
They are also labs that do that with the inhibitory neurons, like they activate them
inhibitory neurons, which activates the neurons, but leads to more inhibition in the secret
tree, and so on.
Yeah, I guess the color of the light corresponds to the excitation energy of the, let's say,
Calcium or potassium?
It's opcins.
It's opcins are receptors that we get from algae and other organisms.
I'd like to give Leonard and Jennifer each a minute to speak,
if you want to say anything.
Yeah, thanks, Micah.
I'm barbecuing right now.
I just popped in and came on stage to add some value later versus just listening.
um but i i want to maybe have you reset the room uh it's great to i've been listening for a couple
of hours back and forth uh it is great to tie that the mind to ai and and to what we're you know what
we're all collectively building specifically my company machine intelligence neural network
database we're more focused on decision theory and probability theory and economics but i love
the mental health side of it and chemical neurons and my cto has worked on a human computer
interaction at lowe's uh technical university he's a he's a senior tenure professor there
but um just want to add value and thanks michael but if we can i'm just following the thread and
and um it looks like we're more on the more medical side but i think at the beginning of
the room we were more on the um sort of the neural link side and what are the probabilities and
possibilities sure uh let me let me link it all together so uh cement numenta uh has these really
great ideas about how cortical columns are helping to organize our the sensory modalities in our in
our of information in in our brain i'm going to make this description a little bit shorter than i
did last time but basically the idea is that you have uh cortical columns in your visual cortex your
audio cortex somatosensory cortex that are each representing you know what you see what you hear
and what you feel in in terms of like they have to talk to each other so that they can integrate
latest information to make predictions about your phone that you're holding right now, how
you're holding it, where your fingers are, how it's moving on the phone. In addition to that,
you're going to have basically, you know, the prefrontal cortex and other areas of your brain
are going to be creating representations of your ideas and how different, how your ideas are
connecting to concepts that are modeled with the different, with the visual cortex and
matter of sensory cortex and so on um and so uh and there's a process of voting which reduces the
number of columns that are cortical columns that are going to be involved in this modeling but
basically everything in the room with you right now every object on the table with you um you
know is going to be basically modeled by uh cortical columns and so because it's true with um with a
device like um with neuralink uh and uh with this with with its many electrodes that are you know
sort of like, I think of the reason you have this many electrodes, a ridiculous amount
of electrodes, is you're going to be doing, you know, basically triangulation, sort of
like a tetrode, where you're going to try to figure out a high definition, but much better
than a tetrode, you're going to try to figure out a high definition and a model of what's
firing and where it's firing that goes beyond what you can do with a tetrode.
And so to bring that back to the medical topic right now, so Neuralink has
proposed that they're going to be able to treat basically every sort of mental illness and um
yeah they they came up with that and um and so the question is well how how actually nick just
joined in i wonder if i should reset it one more time uh so invite to speak but so um but yeah so
the idea is that um nimenta is saying that with the cortical columns we're modeling um you know
everything in our in the room uh you know so you've got the visual cortex and you've got the
the audio cortex, you get the somatosensory cortex, you get the prefrontal cortex, and
there's cortical columns in each area that are talking to each other to predict anything
that you're holding, including your phone, how you're rotating it, a coffee cup, how
you're rotating it, where your fingers are on that phone, what it looks like, what it
sounds like if you bang the phone or the coffee cup against something, and then over time
they're going to reduce their representation.
So there's sequence learning, there's sparse distributive representation.
These are the main ideas of Numenta.
But the big implication of that is that with devices,
with these, I call them super tetrodes, the Neuralink device,
because you can do really advanced modeling of what neuron fired and when
and do advanced decoding of cortical columns.
And I asked Subutai from Neuralink yesterday in Clubhouse,
I said, can you...
Basically, you know, decode cortical columns and figure out when cortical columns are talking to other cortical columns, when a vote has happened between cortical columns, and also, he basically said, yes, this is possible, and there's already examples.
when i pressed him on it further i said he said there's already examples of you know of you know
if you um can uh if you can if you hear something with the visual cortex it's going to uh it might
cause you to think of of some animal like if it's a loud cat you might if you hear a loud cat you
might you might imagine you might see in your imagination uh uh some a puma or a cougar um or
some other like really angry cat you know it could be um in california right where i might
be a little bit different but the idea is that um you're going to be able to um uh sort of like
if you can deconstruct the network protocols of of cortical columns you and you can decode the
cortical columns with neural link then you can begin to pull you know basically predict what
images are happening and then we were talking to katarina and katarina was explaining well
she's already with mice she's already like um decoding basic uh things in in micro cortical
columns um you know such as a fear response she's able to with with great precision to make
a mouse uh less afraid or to i'm sorry i might be mixing that up with with a different um
uh so that was uh okay so that there's the story that um katarina was talking about was
was about in uh causing increasing the um uh it was uh it was about that was about increasing the
um here it is i think i took a note um basically um so there's a story of transferring memories
from one animal to another which is basically like in in optogenetics which is an example of
like if you can capture a memory uh from one cortical column you could transfer it to another
um but um there's also so that's been done and with uh with um neuralink we'll have be able to
do that at a much higher resolution and then uh to get to um uh basically uh oh so in terms of the
the granularity with neuralink or with optogenetics um potentially like um what what uh katarina did
was she elicited the long-term memory with high frequency stimulation generated compulsive
behavior with high frequency stimulation in a mouse. And then, so maybe, I don't know if that
means like the animal's hand was moving compulsively or something, like its arm. But then
with low frequency stimulation, the long-term depression was induced and the animal's limb
stopped moving. And then, so then I've been thinking about this idea, well, what if for a
system that katarina was talking about yesterday uh what if that dysfunction is sort of like
responsible for uh things like um attention deficit disorder and it turns out that is
that's that's um that was a good guess because there's a lot of research in that area there is
um you know katarina brought up that the inhibitory neuron system uh might be damaged in the case of
of of alzheimer's and then no was it alzheimer's and then also um i think the one that came up was
autism and nervousness if um that was another thing that came up um which is these are all
very interesting things that um so basically talking about like okay well would a person
gain more agency if they had more low frequency stimulation basically inducing more um uh more
long-term uh i'm sorry more um inhibition because the idea is that inhibition might be the thing
that gives us more agency in some cases where it's too much if it's too much excitement then then
you're just uh i guess flopping around like a fish you don't have agency you don't have self-control
um so or not as much uh if you have less agency and so um and so bring this back to um yeah so
bring this back to like medicine it's like okay well neuralink proposed that they're going to be
able to treat any kind of dysfunction and maybe they're talking about you know doing things like
in you know increasing uh the frequencies that are decreasing frequencies uh to treat various
illnesses and and that would that might relate to autism and and um and adhd and and others um and
but but they're also sort of like you know what what are the other what are the other things we
can think about in terms of treatments um uh you know and so immunology has been sort of in the
background a little bit um i meant um of this discussion uh katerina brought up immunology
because that's directly related to a potential cause for um the glial cells being damaged which
led to uh the um damage of dysfunction of the interneural system um so the immune system
was compromised it it it it disrupted the interneural system and so inhibition uh was
decreased uh people had the subjects had more uh the the glia was destroyed and the subjects had
more social anxiety more autism um just sort of like rephrasing what katarina kind of said and
um and but yeah so so let's talk about immunology for a second also katarina worked on uh cancer i
on the CAR T cells and treatments or immunology treatments with cancer came up.
But that sort of recaps the room and for the way Leonard asked.
And I also want to give Jennifer, Nick, and Carl each a chance to speak as well.
Thanks so much, Micah.
Yeah, and thank you for all that background.
That was really helpful.
I just dropped in, so it's really helpful to get up to speed a little bit.
um and i i'm kind of coming in here from the angle of being curious about neural link and where uh
you know where that is headed and also exploring this from the point of view of actually autism as
well which is wonderful that you just brought that up i'm really curious um where we're at with
respect to um like of course building out the like neuronal model and being able to predict
these things and read and interpret is a huge project in and of itself and very fascinating
i'm incredibly curious about kind of the writing back mechanism or the inducing certain states and
the fact they got to inhibition is exactly on my mind uh in sheer this area like for autism yes
nervousness but in general like i'm curious the degree of like sensorial inhibition or um or or
even amping up in certain cases where there's hypoactivity of different inputs different sensory
inputs if there had been any research in this area or much talk around it and so I'm just excited to
be here and uh hear a little bit about uh like I'd love to hear what if there's a paper or anything
you could point me to that that is that that is already looking into that it sounds like this has
been a topic so um yeah I don't know if I have too much to add necessarily uh from my angle of
the world I'm not directly involved in this quite so much uh my research with autism has been more
in how to improve, like, digital communication channels
for those who are autistic.
But I'm very happy to be here, and it's a great topic, so thank you.
And I will add quickly, I will have to step out, unfortunately,
too soon from this conversation as well.
I have a few other things going on tonight,
but, yes, we'll be here listening for at least another 10 minutes or so,
and very happy to be here.
Thank you.
Nick, you're next.
Yeah, I also jumped in kind of late, and apologies at first, too.
I don't have to jump off early.
I'm at a seminar all week, so I've got to give a talk on Wednesday,
so I'm working on that.
But, no, I think that the cool thing, you know,
obviously Neuralink has paved the way,
at least for a lot of the innovations for many of the tools within that space.
But the thing that I'm curious about and that I don't know much about
is more of the learning process that has to go on with the implantable devices themselves so
for example like you brought up the the example of the cat like if you take a look at a cat and how
you can sort of map the associations that occur within the cellular patterns that give you that
visual representation of the cat how that is going to occur from one person to the next is not
necessarily going to be identical you know what i mean so when you start to when you start to
let's say you you put the neural link in and you map a person's uh cellular firing patterns that
associate with them staring at a cat and you take that exact same firing patterns and you
stimulate that in another person i would it'd be hard-pressed to believe that you're going to give
the exact same thing of their visual representation of a cat and that other person you know because
it's there's a whole host of factors that have gone into whatever that person associates with
being a cat you know what i mean and so i'm curious as to not only like the inter-individual
differences that are going to occur and and sort of the ability in order for each of these machines
to be widespread across in the public um but also how each of the different perceptions or whatever
it might be um shapes over time within a given individual you know like how you perceive a cat
when you're five years old and it's this light fluffy thing is going to be
One certain neural firing pattern within the cortex, but if suddenly at age seven you got attacked by a cat, now you have a fear response that's added on top of that, is that going to affect the Neuralink input or output, if you will, from its, you know, the stimulus is the same, but now the associations and the firing patterns that are going on for the same stimulus are very much different.
And so I'm curious if anyone knows anything about the sort of learning process that has to go on within the machine itself or the adaptability to change over time.
That's a good question, Nick. It makes me think of just the treatment of PTSD in this space in general.
Yeah, and the reason I was thinking about it sort of along the lines is like, let's say for, you know, drug sensitivity.
You know, if you give a patient one drug, you know, they're going to have a certain response, and you give a patient the same drug under a different condition, they're going to have a very much different response.
And that's sort of wide known in the physiological world, and it gives rise to many of the variances that we see.
but um when it comes to implementing across people i think it creates sort of a big problem
because all of a sudden you have this fantastic beautiful model that you've modeled on three people
with this neural link implantable device and all of a sudden you take that and you put it into
another person and they're instead of seeing cats they're seeing you know zombies and goblins
running around you know so it's an interesting thing um i think i would agree because i don't
know if you know the work of nicolele's lab i took university i think he's one of the most advanced
researchers that is working on making um specialized um helping devices like from
paralyzed for paralyzed people um to make like um connection devices so you can basically um
with your brain um control all kinds of devices for paralyzed people or people that are not able
to talk anymore and so on he's doing amazing work but yeah there is a training phase for each
single person um i would talk to you on that in mouse experiments katarina you you have transplant
you you know of transplants of memories from from one animal to another um you can is that
yes yeah they are like fear memories and context um there is but um i'm not sure how specific like
to a specific like let's say a general idea of a cat i think can be transmitted or general um
visual cue of a cat i think can be transmitted but not the spec a specific cat combined with an
emotional cue can be very easily transmitted i think so if we're talking about those hippocampal
studies i mean it's a very very uh vague kind of notion of like a general fear like something
super specific like that so i have a different take on on on that idea so so the mento is
basically they're saying that um you might have a very specifically the analogy of a coffee cup
you might have the coffee cup and um it is basically modeled um by a thousand different
cortical columns in the visual cortex and a thousand different cortical columns in the
in the in the somatosensory cortex and a thousand different cortical columns in the
audio cortex and a thousand different cortical columns in the prefrontal cortex and and so on
um and and then they the different areas have to vote so even if you could what i think is like
even if you could stimulate uh if you if you could decode basically the pattern of of a cup
in the audio cortex and the pattern of a cup in the visual cortex and then you could you could
take it over and stimulate another person's brain with those exact patterns with with with amazing
detail um and and and i mean like like assuming those patterns have each have a temporal spatial
characteristics like the pattern of broccoli has recognizable recognizable temporal spatial
characteristics it has you know it has a texture it has color it has a crunch it has recognizable
characteristics that you could I guess if you if you if you put together a voxel a four-dimensional
voxel temple spatial patterns representing broccoli and then you fed that to the brain
via stimulation instead of through instead of through the mouth then maybe you could cause
a column to replicate that sense of broccoli but the thing is if that one column is disagreeing with
all the other columns, maybe that will never become a conscious representation of broccoli
in the person's brain. Maybe you'd have to stimulate many columns in order to convince
the overall system to vote that, in fact, broccoli has been detected. So that's my thought
there.
So am I understanding correctly that we can start all work again and build a place called
Tibet, and then we have our own Lambo G redeploy again for reincarnation?
Could you rephrase that? Sorry.
i mean with the current technology that you you just explained just now am i understand correctly
that we can start again a new religion and then uh having the reincarnation uh again and call it
a rembo chi from tibet and then we can uh stimulate the whole memory into another individual
oh uh well there's a lot of i mean uh not tomorrow um yeah the uh there's a lot of
problems currently but trying to trying to as we were talking about earlier trying to simulate the
the brain um with with electrodes could be very imprecise uh so that's why people are talking
about stimulating the brain with other other ways with optogenetics or uh maybe with ultrasound um
but um but whether we can get that the kind of precision we need with electrodes i i think there's
a lot of skepticism right now um by the way if uh carl hasn't had a chance to speak and carl
wants to go then anyone else maybe just um let us know if you have something burning you want to say
just flash your mic a lot and and i'll try to get you so it looks like abyss and nick both want to
go carl do you want to say something real quick or no i'm i'm just enjoying the conversation
thank you very much i keep on listening okay um abyss and then neck please yeah so i have sort of
like a loaded question because i have to leave like and i'm pretty soon but i it seems like this
is a great opportunity to ask the question because we have like lots of accomplished
neuroscientists here so i was kind of reminded of like the um paper that was that was released
by the carmina group at berkeley which actually demonstrated that there is a cortical
corticostriatal plasticity using neuroprosthetic techniques, like they actually inject, like
put in tungsten electrodes to actually induce some kind of corticoplasticity between M1 and
the striatum. So do you think like some kind of functional group plasticity is possible to detect
using the rampant technology that we have, like with Neuralink and Numenta and whatnot,
like, do you think it's possible to kind of go into a research route where, you know,
such plasticity between different functional groups can be detected?
The other question that I have is that I think with the, like I said, with the rampant use
of, you know, invasive techniques to read neuronal signals, do you think we can actually
make a dent on a neurovascular coupling?
Because that's also one of the things that's been left to, you know, non-invasive techniques
like using F-neurs and whatnot, F-neurs with EEGs, and they have, you know, different
convolutional problems, but with invasive techniques, do you think that we can remedy
that situation?
And lastly, I don't know if anybody has read the new publication from BrainGate.
They actually implemented a wireless brain-computer interface,
which kind of, in my expectations, precedes that of Neuralink
and any other wireless technology that I've came across,
which they use their own antenna design, which is like around 3.5 gigahertz or something.
And they have the signal capability of a wired brain-computer interface
because they were kind of like the pioneers in that whole area.
And they were able to record for 24 hours.
But, yeah, so I'd just like to explain what the paper says.
But if anybody has read it and if they did, like, if they have a general opinion on that, thank you.
I'm done speaking.
Just like many labs are working on wireless and the research and because.
Having wires sticking out and you can basically do any social interaction tests and studies.
So there are many labs working on this and they make a lot of progress.
The other question you asked about being specific to brain-reaching connections, using electric stimulation would be very hard to stay very precise.
they for sure i don't know the the paper you mentioned but there are many studies right now
um using when i said optogenetics to detangle basically the role of um specific connection
between the cortical striatum and um amygdala striatum and um bta nucleus accumbens
prefrontal I mean this is being all being mapped out without the genetics and I think that's the
only way to be precise because you can't really come with electric stimulation you can't really
control that just exactly this neurons that will project there will fire you will always affect
interneurons and other neurons so to 100% say just this input was used or if this projection
was used you have to go to tools like optogenetics unless you inhibit the whole rest of the brain
with ttx or something like that which you know if you would do that in vivo because yeah
So you can do that in the slice.
That's how we do it in the slice,
if we inhibit the rest of the slice with TTX,
and then we just stimulate the specific connection.
I can answer real quick.
So neurovascular coupling with EEG efnerus,
I believe you're talking about the fact that efnerus is slower than EEG,
and I believe the solution is laser efnerus.
So laser efnerus is what open water is using.
uh you need a faster camera to do it um that's also um laser doppler is something that is being
used combining with holography which is similar to what open water is doing but it's a bigger
machine so laser doppler with holography or um you know uh functional average spectroscopy with eeg
but laser efners so it's it's basically much faster it's as fast as eeg and that's so it
solves the neurovascular coupling issue i believe and i think nick nick was next
I wanted to speak to answering that question a little bit, but if we want to move on, we can.
Please, please. Sorry, go ahead.
So I study perameral neurons in the auditory cortex, specifically the perameral neurons that project the striatum.
And one of the things from Jeff Hawkins' theory, since we're talking about this in that context,
that i think is significant is he's pointing out that he each cortical column is this is a sensory
motor circuit and uh when i we were when i when we were talking about this i think it was last night
i think me and um sumatai agreed on this uh you know my my hot take on on you know what resolution
we should be these bci should be focusing on right now i would say it's interlaminar
um so if you could track and stimulate precisely uh at the precision of you know say layer one in
the cortex versus deeper layers which are more involved with motor action and we could kind of
understand things you know relative to to you know the the level that i'm studying things
that's kind of a coarse grain thing but it seems like a reasonable thing for the current devices
to do now is to to kind of get a handle on what's happening across the laminar layers of the cortex
and then i think it would be essential for these therapies um you know the other the other thing i
study is the the inner neurons in layer one of the cortex that are controlling dendrites um and
And I think reasonable, like, first strategy therapies that could work with these PCIs
would be some sort of pairing with, you know, motor movement therapies paired with sensory stimulation
and accurate interlaminar stimulation from these PCIs.
I feel like that's got to be a better place to start right now.
Thanks, everyone.
Okay.
I don't know if Nick wants to go next.
By the way, so I think Jennifer was asking Katerina for some papers, but I'll let her out.
Let me just meet myself.
Go ahead, Nick.
I mean, obviously, optogenetics is awesome.
It's very specific, but any of us that work with it every day know that it's far from a panacea of specificity.
And I think Katerina kind of mentioned it a little bit.
So, like, it's very hard to necessarily optogenetically stimulate one specific cell
unless you've obviously transfected the cell with a specific protein
or you've genetically engineered the model in order to express it
only in a specific subset of cells.
And then on top of that, you have the synaptic connections.
So unless you're willing to, like you said, add TTX or synaptically isolate
with, like, CNQX or something, there's many off-target effects.
So it is more specific than general electrical stimulation, but it's certainly far from this elixir of the all-knowing answer.
We were talking about earlier, too, there's a lot of barriers to using it in human subjects right now.
There's a lot of the techniques that make it work, and animals are just not options for human subjects.
right like even even in the papers that we publish with it you know unless you
snap to be isolated the cell that you're doing you know to actually say whether
or not that that certain sub that certain cell type that you're
stimulating or inhibiting is the one that's expressing it rather than just
receiving synaptic input from another one that's expressing it within the field of
light is oftentimes difficult obviously you can you can use retrograde tracing um that you know
that you will only like it won't be one cell but if you want to be specific for a pathway and only
if a pathway got activated you can do press it that it's retro greatly traces and then expresses
implementing it in humans yeah you would you'd have to do the injection right in a person
yeah we can do all the stuff and then and then it's gonna bleach eventually right
i mean it's only gonna less unless you know how to open a critical period of blastocystity
in that short window you have with it it's it's it's not like a chronic thing right
well depends on how often you activate i mean you a chr a chr2 is is not really good they are
newer ones that don't have the desensitization effect as bad as chr2 yeah they are new improved
optogenetic tools that don't have this effect and you can use lower stimulation like lower
light intensities because of course if you use blue warm light you will have and a lot just by
using that light you will change to some extent excitability and damage to some extent the tissue
of course but there have been a lot of improvements made but yeah we are not there yet to do it in
humans as i said they are the only clinical trial i know of is for retina if you want to be precise
at some points um and to really fix tissue again in a precise way you have to one day go that route
because um you know that those implants doesn't my brother he does deep brain stimulation in humans
um because there's a neurosurgeon and you have also over time that you have tissue damage from
electric stimulation and then it doesn't work anymore after a while and then you have to
adjust the frequencies or put new implants in and so on and so forth like the electric stimulation
how we do right now and humans has also a lot of complications so there is some sort of push from
professors and so on
They're just hospitals that we should start thinking about using optogenetics in humans one day, but it's not like in the next few years, but maybe like in the next decades, I think.
Well, regardless, it was kind of a minor point just to say that oftentimes optogenetics is touted as the next answer, and while it is very innovative and it's cool, it certainly has its limitations as well.
So it certainly points us in the right direction, no doubt, but to have it be the answer is obviously maybe far-fetched, but I guess the original point is what I was going to say, or what I was going to sort of propose to ask to anyone that may know or has any insights into is that oftentimes when we're sort of thinking about using these like Neuralink type of devices or something like that in order to elicit a behavior or response or a thought or a feeling,
uh oftentimes kind of similar to what i asked before we assume that if you stimulate xyz
neurons you're going to get you know x response from the patient or the human and while that's
certainly the case uh you know on a tuesday if you take that and do it again on a thursday you
know you can stimulate the exact same xyz and now you're going to get y response from it and so
um you know what am i trying to say here is is how how is um how do we sort of bridge the gap
between assuming that the brain is only producing responses in the absence of any sort of varying
input because you know obviously one of the big functions of the brain is to produce different
motor actions or patterns or emotions or feelings but at the same time and arguably more so
task heavy is the modulation factor is it's overcoming the modulation modulatory inputs
coming from every other part of the brain and so is there any sort of integrated way that the same
sensor can monitor the inputs coming in in order to tailor the outputs that it's going to be using
so i do have a kind of uh speculative answer about that um so if you so it goes back to yeah
so the idea that you have many many uh columns that are basically uh simultaneously
uh rendering the same uh objects a cup so you may have thousands of columns rendering a cup
in the visual cortex um and uh so but they're voting on whether that cup is is real and then
eventually it takes less representation so but so maybe uh your so the idea is so your brain is
always it always has a context that it's rendering it's always like it's not just what happened it's
not just the neural correlates of what happened right now it's it's basically you know the whole
afternoon is is being felt by the whole brain it's all it's all in there it's all it was rendered
it's it's uh it's in the it's in the short-term memory it hasn't been deleted yet the person
hasn't gone to sleep yet so it's there um it's there in a temporal way and so the brain can
notice temporal patterns and so on and so forth and that's going to basically if you have if you
if you have something that's going to be a simulation that's going to be effective one
time and not effective the next time it maybe it's because it's it's seeing it's it's um it's so like
in the case of like a very metaphor would be like when katarina is simulating a neuron that is just
below threshold so that the next time that it's likely to fire fires a little faster because it
is already ready to go and that is enough to trigger the memory it's like so it's the same
so if we take that micro analogy and make it bigger if we if we get a narrow column to behave
the same way it's only going to become uh potentially conscious you know affect a person's
conscious state or affect them in the way you want uh if it's in alignment with what all the
other micro with all the other cortical columns are also sort of like predicting is real uh at the
on the other side of things, next Tuesday, when you give the person the same treatment,
they respond completely differently because their brain is predicting something that is
not in sync. And so your question is, yeah, can we somehow stick our neural link electrodes all
over the person's brain to figure out what they're focused on now so that we can design a treatment
to stimulate the brain that is actually in alignment with what their brain is modeling
at that moment so that the brain actually picks up the stimulation that you're giving and carries
it the way you are hoping it will be carried instead of you know cancelling it out like oh
no i i don't want this stimulation right now it doesn't agree with the rest of my voting
uh cortical columns that's my thought yeah and i was just and i guess to be a little bit more
specific but it sounds like you're kind of going in that right direction it was you know let's say
that you're stimulating one specific aspect of the prefrontal cortex and i'm just taking one random
area and that area within the prefrontal cortex whatever this synaptic space is is bathing in
let's say you know 10 nanograms per deciliter of norepinephrine at that one time and if you give
a 5 hertz stimulation you're going to get a behavioral response out of the animal or the
person now put them in a different situation and that same synaptic space now has 15 nanograms per
deciliter of norepinephrine which is a very very very easily doable change you know you can see
three four-fold changes with these very quickly and you give that five that same five hertz
stimulation to elicit the same response and suddenly you've triggered a you know a grand mal seizure
or something like that because now you have so much extra endogenous neuromodulators that are
within and acting upon those same synaptic spaces you know so i guess the thing that would
be kind of cool is if there's sort of a biofeedback mechanism in that it integrates a uh a what do i
want to say um closed loop therapy exactly you have you have negative feedback in normal biological
systems and sometimes you have positive feedback and it's a very very very important uh mechanism
in order to prevent those sort of things from happening and when you implant an artificial
device you know how are you going to in how are you going to implement this sort of natural
negative feedback mechanisms that are constantly varying and if we can figure that out that'd be
amazingly fantastic and maybe it's already there i just don't know it's like a reinforcement
learning step um but then still your question about variability between humans is also
fascinating and i think very much still feels like an open question that sort of variability
that addresses the temporal variability potentially you know among one but when you
expand to the many it's uh still a very it seems uh scary and exciting i think i can inject a
pretty strong constraint on that that exact issue um where because i was talking of we were talking
with someone today yesterday about this and i brought up the the no free lunch theorem which
just it's actually a very robust mathematical proof but uh just kind of uh very kind of
broad strokes here you're just saying no learning algorithm is better than another learning
algorithm or you could think about if you plot it is doing on the y-axis against you know an
access of problems that the area under that curve would be the same for all learning algorithms so
the the thousand brains theory is saying implicitly uh that there's well yeah explicitly
that the the cortex is using the same algorithm that it's been repeating it's repeating and he's
hypothesizing that there's reference frames that are being computed some things like
uh grid cells place cells this kind of thing and it's that this algorithm is able to abstract
any type of information into this what is like a format so the way the only way that theory works
with the no free lunch theorem is that you're assuming the brain is putting things into
a format puts all problems into a format that it can solve the same way
um so it's kind of touching on what people were talking about with semantics right it reminds me
of uh there's a recent Andrew Sachs McClellan Ganguly paper about semantic development neural
networks and what semantic structures would look like in in you know neural networks um and so in
terms of this this variability thing maybe the you know if we're gonna run with Hawkins being right
then we would know then that things need to be put into this kind of format which might make it
robust to these individual variations between people and different circuits throughout the
brain. I think I'll tie some of this together if I want to speak. Go ahead. So the note-free
lunch thing, it reminds me of Wolfram's idea of computational equivalence of where
you can solve the same problems with different algorithms and things,
but some are more efficient than others.
Subutai said yesterday that he thinks maybe the no-free-lunch theorem is true.
But the brain is tuned to solve the exact kind of problems that people encounter and the type of stimuli that people experience, and therefore, it's maybe a more optimal choice of computational algorithm.
And this idea that these algorithms are general, whether you're in the visual system or the auditory system or so forth, leads to something that Jeff Hawkins points to, is that there have been experiments, apparently, in which the visual system of a developing animal has been connected to what should be the auditory cortex and vice versa, and each one just takes the input that is given and it adapts to it.
So all this points to the brain having this general algorithm that it can adapt to whatever input you give it, which leads us back to where we were talking earlier about, or you guys were talking, I wasn't talking, earlier about how do we interpret signals that come out of neural link or how do we put the right signals that go through neural link to get the things to happen that we want to have happen in the brain.
And I think what Elon Musk is counting on, being a very smart guy, is that the brain will do the work.
So we don't design the exact input pattern or the exact output pattern.
For outputs, he points to the idea of connecting, say, through Neuralink or some prosthesis to a physical prosthesis.
Say someone has a prosthetic limb and they have to learn how to use it.
People used to think you have to hook exactly the right nerves to the right nerves to get it to work.
But basically, you just give the brain an input, and it figures it out, and gives it an ability to do an output, and it figures it out, and give it some sensory feedback, and you can figure out how to move the machine.
It can turn on motors and turn them off and interpret whatever sensory information you're feeding in through the prosthesis.
um so and this is also a good guess the idea we're talking about about transferring memories
from one person to another like how could one person possibly take a signal out of one
the first person's neural link and put it into the brain of the second person's neural link
through the second person's neural link and how could they communicate you know you
where would where would you direct those signals and how would they ever interpret one another
basically i think elon musk's idea is that the brain just figures it out the two brains are
sending noise back to each other and then they're maybe getting some feedback in some other way this
gets to the biofeedback idea some you know they can actually use words to communicate as well and
figure out a way to communicate just because that's what the brain is made to do that's what
i have to say so there's some research that backs that up um i don't know kerry do you want to go
first? I'm sorry. That's a really great point. So David Eagleman is another neuroscientist. He's
talked a lot about research that backs that up, and that includes pulling a rat's eyeball out of
the eye socket and plugging it into the audio cortex, and the rat's brain just figured out that
it began to see with its audio cortex. The audio cortex began to behave like a visual cortex,
basically and see with that artifact with that eyeball and in another case um he david egman
talks about um using a tongue strip that's uh the electrodes on the tongue strip are connected to a
camera and so someone who's blind can begin to see because their tongue is being stimulated
uh like like like the grid of electrodes on the tongue represents the pixels on the camera and
then the person's brain just figures it out so you so the idea is that you could just dump any kind
of data into the brain uh and that could be stock data and you're in your brain is going to figure
it out and where you dump the data it doesn't really matter that much um but uh but yeah so
just pause there yeah i also wonder how far i wanted to add nicoleli's lab again um they he
made a brain-to-brain network. He says, he labels it as a brain net, so that brains of two or more
animals can be networked together and be part of a single computational system to perform motor
tasks, which points kind of into that direction. And he made a brain-to-brain interface, allowing
transmission of tactile and motor information between rats all of this like his his lab work
points into the direction that the brain most likely can figure those things out um would you
would you link um some research papers some more research papers katarina as well the ones
that jennifer was asking about i forgot what they were but um but and when what you just shared
thanks Micah um specifically uh just to clarify on my side the ones when you were talking about
um inhibition of sensory experiences with respect to autism if there was anything specific to that
I'd be super curious thank you there's like such abundance on autism and inhibitory uh research I
can I can pull up are you more interested in like the immune response related autism related I can
animals there's like a lot of work are you are you more interested in human work i can check
sorry katerina didn't mean to cut you off um yeah work is specific to humans with autism would be
most interesting to me um and if there is kind of inhibition or excitation of certain sensory
systems any example of that is a good starting point that can kind of run off of uh linked
research papers and do my own follow through yeah yeah there are a bunch of where they use the
magnetic um you know the huge magnetic fields to change the the system and uh yeah i will i will
pick some up and put them post them on twitter and then thank you so much yeah i hugely appreciate it
a lot i'll send you a dm as well i did send you one like around the same topic so um but i'll i'll
you katerina and this is probably me saying good night as well so thank you so much all of you and
it's been a pleasure and look forward to being in future rooms with you too thank you yeah thanks
i will go well too have a good night bye also good night you too bye bye
so to play devil's advocate and as micah knows i'm a neuroscientist by trade so i i'm obviously
fully on board with everything that's uh going on neural link but to play devil's advocate in
the statements about you know the specifics of the stimuli may not necessarily matter
uh because the brain can let's say sort them out into its own independent use
um along those lines of thinking do we necessarily then need to go towards the invasive brain
approach or can we derive the majority of the functions through uh let's say some sort of
systemic uh perturbations you know that are less invasive or through infusions of varying uh
molecules or whatever it is that you might think of because either way you're either way you might
be providing access into the brain and whether or not it's a specific electrical stimulus or if
it's a um sort of more of a biological stimulus that's coming from the periphery uh which the
brain is perceiving you know can you take some sort of complex uh systemic stimulation that
then the brain has to encode you know just as it would an electrical stimulation within the brain
and get a similar response if the brain ultimately in itself is going to sort out what the stimulus
as any. So I, so I agree with that a hundred percent. Um, in fact, uh, I, I've, I don't know
if I've written about this, but I've been thinking about, you know, what is the, it may turn out,
uh, that, that the fastest way to, uh, to simulate the brain into a virtual reality is through
your eyes. And that sounds like ridiculous, right? Cause we do that already,
but your eyes are like this high bandwidth uh port into the brain um but besides that yeah so um
uh and by the way i wanted to mention because um there's been there was a debate
about simulating you know stimulating with optogenetics being totally necessary i think
i heard mary lou jeffson talk about uh simulating uh with with optoacoustic a submillimeter precision
but there's a paper that i can mention uh i'm twitter's not letting me post anything right now
because I'm doing things too fast for Twitter.
But if you look up optoacoustic stimulation
at submillimeter spatial precision.
Oh, sorry, it is on my Twitter.
It's the thing I just posted.
So optoacoustic brain stimulation
at submillimeter spatial precision.
So this is like the emerging modality
for neuromodulation, basically.
Low-intensity ultrasound.
The regular ultrasound can't do anything below
like two millimeters or something.
but this has a diameter of 600 micrometers and generates omnidirectional sound wave locally at
the fiber tip through opto-acoustic effect. But it's just an idea that in the future perhaps we'll be able to
To do stimulation, direct stimulation with opto-acoustics, but yeah, so like I imagined, yeah, that we could, I had this dream once that I put something on my belt or on my shoulder and the computer connected, AI controlled my body so it looked like I was upright in the cafeteria and allowed me, and then induced me into a lucid dream so I could get up out of the cafeteria in a lucid dream and begin to, like walk, walk out on the street and begin to play a computer game
that involved, in that case, angels falling from the sky
with axes and swords and medieval weapons,
and I had to fight them off somehow.
But the idea was that basically that the input to the lucid dream
could be any part of the body.
And I think that as long as you're connected to the nervous system,
as long as you know the networking protocols
of being able to stimulate one part of your nervous system
and cause reactions in your brain,
And I think that, you know, the examples of that, as Subutai was saying, was that, you know, if you simulate the audio cortex, the visual cortex is also going to imagine the cat that you're hearing, right?
The big cat.
You hear yourself.
Oh, yeah, I mean, I was, I'm sorry, I'm micing, I was done.
yeah no that was exactly the point i was i was uh you know wondering is that you know perhaps we
can get a majority of the way there before we even get into the brain which is inherently going
to be a more risky procedure obviously you know it's going to open up a new frontier and certainly
evolving if nothing else um the different techniques in order to modulate it and measure
the brain activity but perhaps if the stimulus isn't all that necessarily to be specific
you know we can get those stimuli from somewhere else that might be a little less risky or at least
on the trial runs a little more generalizable to the public with without having to worry
necessarily about the innate risk of um you know imminent danger right away so what katarina was
saying uh she's she's gone for the night but what she was saying was that she basically so you know
Our neurons are being, they have tonic and phasic firing patterns.
They have cyclic rhythmic patterns all the time.
They're firing every so often and whether you stimulate them or not.
But the idea is that, so what she did was she stimulated a neuron just enough to get below its threshold so that she was extremely granular so that it wouldn't fire because of her stimulation, but it would fire faster.
It would peak faster.
So it would eventually produce the pattern that she was hoping to produce.
And I think perhaps we might decode the brains to a sufficient extent
that we don't have to stimulate as much as we might think we need to stimulate now
to produce the kinds of effects that we want to.
We might be able to reduce it down to just basically
just stimulating just enough to disrupt the rhythmic pattern,
but not as much as you may not need to actually cause any neurons to fire,
but just get them ready faster.
yeah most of the neurons i mean when you you're manipulating them in general i mean they're not
obviously they're extremely complicated but they're not all that smart of things i mean
they're pretty easy to entrain with different firing rates you know especially with top genetics
we do that all the time with the rhythmic systems is can these subset of cells entrain the rhythm
in order words in other words like what is the minimum necessary amount of cells that you can
stimulate within a repeated fashion that's in a different frequency than that of the normal
biological frequency and can you entrain that rhythm so that it resets it and you can kind of
figure out the underpinnings of what is the minimum necessary circuit in order to take
control of whatever um function is that you're measuring and we do that all the time um but yeah
it's a you know it's an interesting thought that you know perhaps we don't necessarily need to
stimulate as much as we do you know you can you can take three neurons and control 30 of them
something like that wow that's really cool you invite um so popcorn style anyone wants to speak
go ahead i'm gonna jump out i'm working from home today and i'm not getting a lot of work done
i'm in australia so it's about one one o'clock in the afternoon here um yeah thanks for the
really interesting discussion and i look forward to being back and joining you all again cheers
great thank you i'm also gonna jump off i'm on the east coast so it's 1 a.m here
but it's been a great discussion thanks for holding the room great um i will i will start
inviting some new people since people are jumping off this is a six-hour marathon i expected people
would be coming and going so let me uh do some more invites and uh and uh if you haven't had a
chance to speak yet um or if you if you're um if you're down below and you you would like to say
something just raise your hand and and we'll call you up yeah thanks mike i gotta jump off too
all right uh have a have a great night and uh so i just want to say a sentence i woke up
five minutes ago i'm under loading my brain not loaded but uh i just want to say
for making relation between computer and brain
it's not necessary to using implants.
There are many other ways
and we need to research on why Neuralink is important
and the Elon Musk projects
because when we start using 6G internet
the iod will be joined to our life and this is so dangerous but i'm researcher i'm working on it
and i love it but about neural link i think it's not new we know many projects before it
the people using implants on brain dead after three or five years and i just want to say
it's not necessary
we're using implants
it was Sina and I'm signing off
Awesome, anyone want to reply?
I'm still just inviting some folks
Just a quick question Mika
since we are talking about
the technology available
and receiver to the public right now
and Elon Musk seems to be
a very multi-talented person
you know from PayPal, from the whole
AOL until today
he has been involved in so many
project so are these projects are government involved because if we involve such a high-tech
project normally the government and the military will be the first involved and when it get into
the public it will be like 10 times lower than the actual technology that are already available for
them so what is your point of view of the current discussion and the technology that we aware of
right now are they aligned with the level of the government project that
already running at the background I'm not sure what direction take that
question Leonard do you have thoughts on that so I so you would so okay so let me
just sort of like so the question is about given the implications of Neuralink
and Numenta and the technology that we have now today including the the things
that Elon Musk is working on.
You wanted to know how the government
and people around the world should react to that technology.
Is that right?
We understand the technology from the alignment
of the actual technology that already, how to say,
reaches maturity because normally when the public sector
receiving the technology is already 10 times lower
than the actual technology due to the secrecy of the cia agent and or the government uh sector that
is uh reserving the knowledge and information uh as a weapon uh to the to not sure what hidden
agenda is i'm not going to mention it so did you um pretty sure that the current knowledge that
available to the public can be discussed is aligned with the level of the knowledge that
maybe the government or some agency that is hiding behind.
Um, so I mean, okay, so it's, so I mean, the part that I'm stuck on is like, how do I compare this to the knowledge that is hidden, right? The knowledge that some agency has. And I don't know how to respond there. Um, I don't know if I, um, I guess, I guess, um, I guess you, I guess you kind of want to know it is, um, yeah, I'm just not, I'm not clear.
Like when you said, you know, when secret government agencies are, I don't know what they're doing.
I don't know what secret agencies are doing.
So I'm not sure how to respond.
Yeah.
I don't, yeah.
Well, I think we can look at it from a different perspective.
If we trace from the talent pool and the scientists that are available, are there a missing group of talented scientists that is hidden in the background, doesn't come to the public and do their speaking?
So, and then if we have the awareness that what we are knowing today for the public sector is slower than the actual technology 10 times, for example, then we need to start to think of the perspective of what is already available and what we are doing research right now.
and we need to do the critical thinking 10 times faster ahead
so to avoid to be the victim of the weaponized of the technology.
That is my point of view, Dave here.
I'm done speaking.
Okay, yeah, I mean, so I understand that part.
So, yeah, so for example, at the first talk about Neuralink,
Elon Musk slipped on stage and he started talking about the monkey, right,
the monkey that they showed everybody two years later so that was uh he started to talk about
the monkey and everyone else uh like shushed him like hey we're not talking about that yet right
but that happened two years ago and then two years later the we did the the um we see this video a
neural link video and a monkey is controlling a cursor on a screen and it's basically uh a
replication of brain gate and so brain gate uh was is one of the the goals that they're trying to do
is to create like a mass-produced brain gate that you can you can leave in the brains of people who
are paralyzed and they'll be able to control cursors on screens and and maybe a lot of other
things you know hands like artificial limbs and they'll have more fine motor controls with those
thanks to Neuralink and this is like low-hanging fruit for a device with Neuralink's capabilities
And so these things will be mass produced.
So my perspective is that whatever the public knows about that, I mean, like even like covering a lot of these stories, you know, writing about them, you know, if you're focused on it, what you know is usually like what I know is usually a couple years ahead of what the general public knows because that can be very focused on certain things.
but what what uh what i don't know is probably a couple years ahead of what i do know and and then
and that that's where you get to like you know with the military the the the late the secret
scientists who are not reporting to the public yeah maybe about two years ahead of uh of the
companies you know that are working on the similar technology there's lots of cool technology that
DARPA worked on, uh, that the U S Navy, uh, owns and, and, you know, that has leaked out after,
you know, 12, 14 years of, you know, now it's going into the consumer and that's where people
like me get to learn about it. But, um, but yeah, there's, so I, I just expect that whatever
is being worked on, uh, behind closed doors, uh, by independent scientists who are not talking to
the public is is probably some really really cool stuff and some of the things that we um
are speculating about today uh they may have made significant advances towards um i was just like
realizing that um basically that that you know with with uh with laser doppler um that you know
someone mentioned laser doppler as being as fast as eeg and uh that's when it that's when it like
it really clicked for me that like for two years Mary Lou Jepsen has been talking about
uh laser FNIRs and that that the part that the F functional infrared spectroscopy
was laser the entire time means that it was that it was as fast as Mary Lou Jepsen's technology
is probably as fast as EEG and has been this entire time but I don't think that she ever
mentioned that I was just like it was like oh my gosh she's she's had these capabilities
and um I don't know if she's mentioned that but but I don't know why she would but
But yeah, so that was just like, I don't know who that was.
Someone just popped into the room for a second, and someone wants to come up.
But yeah, so in terms of, you know, there may have been really interesting developments
that have already happened that we're sort of like vaguely speculating about.
But I don't know how we can know.
Go ahead, Mark.
are you saying that darpa has solved many of the ai problems that we think we're dealing with
at the cutting edge um i i don't know uh but they may have some cool technology i'm not sure what
what exactly they have so obviously but but i would say it's much more limited that there was
like 30 years ago because how the economics work and how much money uh the private sector now can
can put into use on this um when you listen to to people who work in government um they complain
all the time that they don't have access to the top talent and there is also people in ai talking
on their relationship or how they get approached by ARPA and other agencies.
And I would say there should, of course, be some delay and some technologies
that they have are not public, but I would say two things.
One, they become public much, much earlier than, like, 30, 40 years ago.
and there is not that much as there used to be.
I don't know, Mika, what do you think about that?
Well, one of the major things that slowed down the spread of information.
So, yeah, so Yanli Kun, one of the core contributors of deep learning,
he was one of three who got a Nobel Prize, right,
with Jeffrey Hinton and Yoshio Benjia.
But he was saying that back in the, I think it was in the 80s,
uh he he came out with his open source he had i guess this was before open source they wanted
to release software basically open source the open source wasn't a thing yet but they they wanted
to release um uh i think it may have been a neural network uh yeah it was like the it may have been
the first cnn um but but the thing is like this was before the internet and uh so trying to um
um release code uh in the 80s before the internet was uh was really hard it was really hard to
share your code uh with other people and uh this came down to like basically um like a bandwidth
constraint if you can imagine uh the pre-internet world uh or remember it like me like right
that there's this um and so yeah so just because of that uh there's so much information there's so
much uh research that that i imagine that uh you know um the u.s government couldn't even
accidentally distribute software in the 80s right so um that sort of like led to um well they had
they did have the internet right before everyone else right but um it's like um you know arpanet
and uh so arpa before darpa but uh the thing is like yeah so um the information travels so fast
that if the government has an edge in terms of time it's probably like uh like you're saying it's
probably a lot less of an edge in innovation uh than it used to be uh in 80s because information
gets ran a lot faster and um so i i would expect there that uh the government could be
um two years you know ahead of us ahead of ahead of um but but but maybe not 30 years
So maybe 10 years is kind of a stretch.
I think that whatever they're hiding is probably not more
than two years more advanced.
I mean, just a wild guess, but who knows?
What was your observation with the monkey and mask,
wasn't it?
He was talking about that two years ago before it was
officially released.
So yeah, that sounds about right.
I remember a good example.
There was this hearing about the satellites that only the military have access to,
hearing that they have extremely high bandwidth to send data.
Data back and forth, and they're really, really fast, and it's just not, and they can do, like, GPS precision, like, extremely precise GPS, and, oh, you can kind of, you can find a reference to this, actually, online if you search for, I think the U.S. government was trying to stop the European people in Europe from deploying, like, extremely high-precision GPS, because that was, like, an advantage that they just wanted the U.S. military to have, or something like that.
um and um and uh but as soon as you get high precision gps in europe well okay well then
what's the advantage for for the u.s military but that's like why we don't have high precision
um gps in the united states is because they wanted this to be like a technology that only
they wanted the military to have technologies that consumers didn't have and uh so you know
the military doesn't feel good about that if everyone has the same technology they do
but uh i'm kind of like yeah i want high precision dps how about you
my main data point is how uh people who work in these agencies
so often complain about how they don't have access to top talent that's like a really really
important clue to me all right well i mean we're kind of i think uh we're kind of at the uh we're
going way off topic here so the topic maybe i should recap the topic um so yeah we're just uh
talking about Neuralink and Numenta and the massive overlap between the two.
Numenta has given us this sort of map for how our cortical columns are creating reference frames
that reference the objects, and they can work together to represent everything we can see
and hear within our conscious workspace, right?
And then Numenta, so Numenta is going to be putting new sensors into human beings
that are, you know, have vast capabilities.
They have, you know, when you have 16 electrodes per tendrin
and you have, you know, 3,000 of these electrodes with all these tendrins,
then you get to a situation where you can do things like,
like very like each electrode may be able to detect create a map of of neurons that are firing
within a 1000 neuron radius or 140 micron radius and if you have like basically the way tetrodes
work you can if you have multiple electrodes you can triangulate and if you have a lot of
electrodes, you can get high-definition triangulation of where the neurons are firing, and it allows
you to figure out if you get it firing in the same area, is it two different neurons, or just
one neuron, or firing in two different areas, is it just the same neuron, or is it really two
different neurons, and this is something you need a lot of electrodes to do. It's sort of like a
high-resolution reconstruction, or medical imaging. Who's developing that, and what stages?
That's Neuralink. That is Neuralink. That is the topic of the room today.
And so the idea here is that when you combine basically the research of Nementa with research of Neuralink,
potentially what we're talking about with Neuralink devices is decoding the cortical columns
and decoding what people are seeing and hearing.
Neuroimagers will be able to know when cortical columns are voting on a representation
and what the representation is.
So that means that, and by the way, one of the guys who works at the vice president of Numenta was here on Clubhouse yesterday, and I asked him if the Neuralink device is something that will be decoding cortical columns, and he affirmed it.
yes, that is something that is in the range of the device's capabilities.
If you put enough of them in the right places, this is possible.
And so that means that we're moving into a world in which, you know,
the courts may be able to, I don't know what the timeline is,
but we're moving into a world where, for real,
the courts will be able to search your brain if they have a warrant
to see if you've committed a crime.
and uh they'll be able to perhaps uh trigger um you know your your your part of your cortex to
trigger it like you know if you trigger the audio cortex um you know with the sound of a cat
a big cat your visual cortex might imagine the visualization of a big cat running towards you
really fast like a like a uh um i'll say a puma right uh it's a very dangerous cat and um so you
you might be able to basically pull up old memories i don't know um but but um but um it's
an interesting it's an interesting idea that what you can see and what you can hear what you can feel
even what you're thinking your thoughts themselves your emotions these can be decoded from uh from
neural columns we had a guest earlier uh talking to us about explaining how uh um emotions will be
able to uh how you'll be able to just uh if you can decode a cortical cortical columns you can
decode emotions uh she was working with optogen in it optogenetics uh and mice but um um yeah so
those are big those are big things to think about in terms of like well what is the what is the
public's reaction going to be what is um what is the public going to ask the government can do
to do what kind of laws does the government want to consider passing what what is the real like
you know these devices are going to be mass produced for initially for um for the low-hanging
fruit of of helping people uh who are immobile to have more mobility right to to um to give
to let someone control the cursor on a screen uh with thought or to control artificial limbs with
thought and then um but then you know we've mastered then we've mastered distributed these
devices right because you have people all over the world who have mental illnesses they have
autism and and depression and post-traumatic stress disorder and um and attention deficit
disorder and these devices can uh provide potential treatments by stimulating and and
also depressing uh uh they can you know like we had this speaker earlier was explaining how she
was able to um make an animal um that she was treating um basically uh have a um
a be uh i should see if i can if i can pull my notes up right here um she was able to basically
elicit a long-term memory that involved high frequency stimulation from an animal and then
she had another animal to generate the compulsive behavior with high frequency stimulation that
matched that frequency and then so the animal then began to exhibit the compulsive behavior
uh right because um because it was based in this high frequency stimulation but then she
used low frequency stimulation uh to uh to induce ldt which is a long-term depression and uh what
happened was the animal's compulsive behavior went away so so um that sort of thing is like
has been demonstrated in a mouse what's also been demonstrated in a mouse is is um you know
scanning the basic primitive memories like fear and like a fear response to a certain thing
and then transferring that with optogenetics to another mouse so that's an example of
reading and writing to a brain and when we have the high definition of Neuralink we're going to
have high definition reading and high definition writing capabilities in the future so maybe
a high-definition image will be able to be downloaded from one person and uploaded to
another person so you can see what someone else saw. And that's real. I mean, they're
precursors of this technology. There are papers that we can point to. And so, I mean, I do
have a group that, of course, people can join. The group on Facebook has the same title as
this talk so if you type the title of this talk into facebook you see a group with about 9 000
people uh 9 900 people and um but uh but yeah we've got lots of papers and of course if you
if you need more papers you can ask and we'll get we'll get them for you um but yeah so like what
so you know so you're gonna have a lot of people are gonna want to talk about this you're gonna
have a lot of people gonna want to have ethics discussions legal discussions what laws we do we
want to pass and and and a lot of scientists are going to want to talk about this like how is this
how soon is this coming what what are the sort of like um technology hurdles that and and science
hurdles that we need to do to to get to this point and um the thing that won't happen is it won't
won't be stopped and and that's because it solves too many problems it solves too much
human pain. It solves too much disease. And so when you have a lot of people who are in pain
and they have diseases, they're
Their money is going to be at the forefront of their concerns, so they're going to be paying into these expensive health care systems, and these health care systems are going to be looking to lower their costs, and so pain is going to drive money, which is going to drive this innovation, which is why this technology is coming no matter how we feel about it, but if we know that it's coming, then what do we do is we talk about it, and we, yeah, so the world is going to change,
uh but um but the the kind of thing that is being handed out is is more dangerous than than a
scalpel it's more dangerous than a gun it's uh so it has to be so regulation has to be um considered
in in terms of in terms of being realistic yes it does need to doesn't need it will like uh need to
be uh uh to exist because um because people need relief people need medical relief right but uh
But it's also a very serious tool that can be misused.
Let's come back to my point that the gap of technology available
between the government, military, and the public sector.
So the public is starting to have awareness of the tools can read your mind
and expose all privacy.
And everybody is naked and there's no privacy at all.
So how sure that we're sure that the government is not already deployed and reading everybody's mind in the background for the past 20 years or 30 years or 40 years, already has been deployed.
And it comes to the legal policy that the public started to have awareness that we need to have some policy and legal way to protect ourselves.
So, therefore, I'm also searching, is there any device that can detect such activity reading other people's minds for their own objectives already happening in the background of the society?
Let me give you some examples. In Malaysia, we have this culture of afternoon lunchtime nap at a big corporation like Malaysian Airlines.
and we also having the CEO has been changed
and he cannot accept this kind of culture in the corporate world.
And when you think about reading people's mind,
you need the subject to be stationary.
So the whole group of people in the corporate
is having their head down and having their afternoon nap during lunchtime.
And then when they wake up, they immediately execute what has been programmed.
So looking at this kind of phenomena,
you can like trace a bit that is something fishy going on in the background and then speaking
and they fear. Do you see, Mika, if something is already been proposed or not, how that is served?
Well, I guess there is a sort of example in the European legislation for artificial
intelligence, which everyone might have seen in the news recently. I don't know how familiar
everyone is but I'm not that familiar with it I briefly looked at it and I and yeah so there's
a proposal in Europe about well you know maybe we should restrict some AI some businesses from
doing some things some corporations from doing some things people from doing some things maybe
maybe the military should just have like the best of the best AI but only for specific reasons right
uh only only if we're looking for terrorists or something and I I when I hear stuff like that I
I think well if you look at the history of all governments like the history of all governments
uh there's no government that you can really trust um but then someone else yeah there's no
corporation you know that that you can really trust either um so it's not so it's like it's but
it's like a situation where like well I think we don't want to make one group a lot more powerful
than everyone else right i mean i think so i i mean i that's my thought um so the idea that
only the military should have uh voice uh face for face recognition for example i i don't know
that's i don't know uh it's there's a discussion has to be had but um but i'm not in europe so
it's um but i mean i don't know what what will happen in the u.s at some point um uh let's see
does anyone else want to respond to that one i am oh here we go we got someone okay so welcome
no that was completely incorrect okay not only that not last 30 years not next 30 years
uh it will never be it cannot be used against the little people unless they are tied up
in a like torture table or something like that you cannot from far away it's again
physics tells you cannot from far away record activities of the brain of people or change them
it's physics laws even eeg that's like where you record from the scope
the resolution is so low that you cannot see it cannot at all i mean absolutely
I mean, it's laws of physics that it's impossible for your thoughts from EEG.
But for that, if you have implants in the brain, put implants in the brains of people against their will,
you'll have to arrest them, tie them up, anesthetize them, and make a hole in their brain, etc.
So you will obviously know if something happens.
Okay, it sounded like you were referring to the idea that someone said earlier about the government already reading your mind 20 years ago.
I'm not suggesting that.
I'm not suggesting that.
I'm just talking about the last thing that was said.
Okay, I may have not heard the last thing that was said.
I may have zoned out and maybe I'm getting tired.
In terms of Neuralink, in terms of Neuralink, this device that is in Numenta, the idea is that your brain will be creating many models of what you're experiencing in many different parts of your cortex, but specifically in the cortical columns.
And then, you know, I asked Subutai from Numenta if a device like Neuralink could be used to decode those cortical columns and the loading process that they go through to recognize an object to affirm it.
And he said yes, that basically a device like Neuralink could be used to decode cortical columns.
And now if your thoughts and feelings...
That's possible, we are far away from it, but yeah, all of the, I think the things you said are in principle possible, and I don't know when we can achieve that, but it's there possible, yeah.
Okay, but I mean, I'm not, I didn't propose anything that was not possible. I'm saying that there's a lot of papers we can point to to support this argument as well.
And that's what the whole discussion has been about is basically, you know, it's, I guess there's a lot of different ideas about how the brain is processing information.
But if the folks at Numenta are correct, that cortical columns can be decoded and that potentially we'll find the representations of what we're seeing and hearing and feeling in microcortical columns across the brain.
And potentially that means that we'll be able to download those representations or predict what is there,
even if we, you know, which is a different way of getting at those representations.
And, but in the, yeah, so in the long term, I mean, if we're, if the same process is also
happening in the, outside the somatos, outside of the primary sensory cortices, but also
like in the prefrontal cortex and the other areas of the brain, the idea is that if you
have an idea
and the idea has
properties and that is also a reference frame
it's the same sort of mechanical operation
as your brain tracking
physical objects in your environment
with your cortical columns
which is what the Numenta book
is about, A Thousand Brains Theory
and the same idea applies to concepts
so just like mapping everything
physical
with different cortical columns
thousands of them all over the place
but in the
your your cortical columns are also tracking abstract ideas in a similar way and so you may
We have many different representations of the same idea, and the cortical columns are helping to track the integrations of the different components.
So there's like, and it's the structure of how that works is supposed to be similar to the way that you get a reference frame out of the interaction of place cells and grid cells in the interenocortex.
and um so that so uh if we can basically decode um what cortical columns are doing
um in the sensory cortices uh you know with psychophysics and then potentially we can decode
what the cortical columns are doing in in the rest of the cortex and then uh and then we're
listening to your thoughts at the level of cortical columns firing with enough sensors
placed in enough areas.
And so that's what I'm saying.
It's like, well, okay, now if we're decoding the brain on that level, which I don't think
I'm disagreeing with you, but in terms of this might be a long road to get to this point.
It might be decades of research, maybe.
but um you know but um um but but uh yeah but if we can figure out the uh the network protocols
then we can figure out you know exactly the right amount of stimulation like this one
optogenetics researcher came in earlier and she was saying that she delivered an amount of
stimulation to one neuron that was sub-threshold so that when that neuron was going to fire again
in the next uh in its next cycle it fired a little bit faster and that produced the pattern
that she was hoping to generate, which she was doing things like causing neurons to basically
fire a lot faster and introduce basically dysfunctional behaviors for the animal or
then have them fire a lot slower and make the dysfunctional behaviors go away because
she was introducing uh long-term uh depression and um but she was like really just getting very
granular and very um i guess uh uh doing coarse-grained stimulation to just produce just the
right result to uh change the rhythms of the brain to to create the effect of um what she wanted to
do and and uh so i think that um i don't know exactly how we're gonna like i'm looking at like
opto-acoustic brain stimulation so a sub-millimeter precisions um a neuroscientist came in and he was
talking about uh well what if we just stimulate outside the brain just to create the you know
because you can you can throw a stimulation at any part of the brain it's going to if it's uh if
it's like you know and you know if you if you plug in a third eyeball into the audio cortex uh the
brain's going to figure out how to see with that eyeball it's going to take whatever information
you give it wherever you give it and like a general learning algorithm it's going to adapt
and learn what that is and uh and learn the data stream and um let me pause because i'm just
and give someone else gives uh so he'll a chance i'm coming from the wisdom of the ancient wisdom
because uh i i have been studying all these uh ancient you know buddhism book uh quran muslim
book in the holy quran they are clearly stated that is angel doing all sort of thing that is one
angel that is being assigned to record down human thought 24 times 7 so now if you replace the angel
as a satellite and according to the timing of the written of the holy quran when was it and maybe
they already achieved the technology that already uh be able to record all the human race thought
to the technology that has been missing or being brainwashed from the society that we lost touch
of the technology so and this is really clearly stated on the holy quran that maybe the scientists
should also you know uh take a reference uh maybe uh uh 2 000 years ago 5 000 years ago that that
century that generation already achieved the uh where we want to achieve uh right now so if they
are so daring to put into the holy quran that is angel that the recording 24 times 7 what is your
talk about this until i'm done speaking so um i want to escape that because it's too i want to
escape that comment that uh going into that direction conversation because it's too far off off topic
but um let me see if we can invite some more people um here and we'll sort of move move uh
move the conversation around a little bit let me just change some things thank you very much uh
dave and um let me actually um i'd love to hear more from sohail for a little bit
uh and then uh of course uh who should who can we invite to this room i want to bring
some more people up here let me just invite everybody down there to come up and talk if you'd
blank yeah i mean i mean uh oops i muted myself um the um yeah there was in it so david the
researcher was david eagleman and he talked about uh um how a rat's eyeball had been pulled out of
the eye socket and plugged into the audio cortex and the rat's brain figured it out and began to
see through the audio cortex. Another experiment that has been done was connecting an electrode
strip to a camera and then connecting that to the person's back, and a smaller electrode strip was
attached to a person's tongue. In both cases, the person was, the subjects were blind, and they
began to see a primitive image in their mind. They began to see through the camera because
and it was very simple because they just took the pixels of the of the camera and they had that
create the electrical simulation on the electrode strip which either went on their back or on their
tongue and their brain figured out the image uh based on the electrical simulation so the idea
is that you really could plug in any kind of information uh to um to a part of your body
that has enough nerves like your feet or your back your tongue or into the brain directly um and
your brain will figure it out because it is essentially a general learning algorithm the
neocortex is essentially self-similar um uh across the entire thing like like um i guess it's about
i guess you could say it's divided into cortical columns but the cortical columns are essentially
repeating and others differences but the argument from Nementa is that the
similarities are broadly more common than the differences in the end that
cortical column is like almost like a universal computer science would have
universal Turing machine I'm not saying cortical column is universal Turing
machine, but it's similar, similar concept. It's very
versatile. So you can do multiple senses and many different
computations and calculations can be done in cortical calm in a
generic way. And this is kind of in evolution, this is kind of a
later stage. So like the subcortical areas of the brain
were kind of almost like special purpose computers, or
special technology in some sense with general purpose computation that um it's a bit slower so
it can be precise um yeah vernon mountcastle yes and it was before 1950 i think like 1940s maybe
we lost you let me i'm bringing you back up i don't know yeah about like a
A bit of history of that, but I don't know what is useful to say. I don't know. I just don't want to start talking.
This is Leonard. I think I moved Sabal to the stage by accident.
Yeah, you're fine, Sabal. That was an accident. So if you want, go ahead. Keep going.
Yeah, yeah. And then, so later, the more qualities were, first of all, they discovered that, so maybe it's good to know, it's a bit detailed, maybe it's good to know.
uh so when mount castle uh we're known mount castle sent an electrode in across the thickness
of cortex when the electrode was perpendicular uh he observed different things and when it was like
slanted i don't know what's the right word then the neurons had different qualities but when it
was perpendicular to the surface of the cortex basically when he was going through the thickness
of cortex he was seeing all the neurons do the same thing and he was surprised because it's very
tiny like how many millimeters it's like less than a millimeter or something like that it's like six
layers i forgot how thick the cortex is six layers but it's long enough so that you can see
a variety of neural responses and functions but he was consistently seeing that across the depth
of cortex across the thickness of cortex when he moves exactly perpendicular to the surface of
cortex is his exact same responses so we kind of proposed this idea that it's like imagine like
a cake that you cut it with a knife vertically and there are layers but each of these columns
make a basic same functional unit and those only work together to do this kind of computation
so this idea was kind of um first it was not accepted uh well because all new ideas are like
that because it's like it it was a too general too big um claim about organization of the brain
because what if it was just once or twice it happened accidentally but when other people
saw the same thing it was generally slowly accepted and montcastle was one of the very very important
neuroscientists but people expect him to expected him to win a nobel prize but i don't know he didn't
maybe because uh adoption of his theory was slow vertical columns and then there are so this is
more about organization of the brain uh initially but then later he suggested more things like
the hyper columns like multiple of these columns make beer columns that are
still closely related but not identical and etc so they make uh in their organization create
kind of modules and these different modules in different areas work together in a distributed
process etc so he developed these kind of theories with lots of rigorous experiments on mice etc
and so neuroscience was already there and they were doing this stuff like in
70s and 80s um yeah neuroscience is all sort of ordered older but i'm just uh talking about the
history of cortical columns so during time people try to understand the cortical column what is that
magical circuit that can do every calculation so it was later on that they did discover that
it's a universal circuit that can do same circuit or same micro architecture can do many many
versatile functions across different brain regions not only different senses like vision and hearing
but also many different things like calculating physical calculations like how objects in the
physical world behave and basically most of the things that brain do it was later um gradually
identified but this remained as kind of secret and it's still almost a secret that um not almost
like it's very they have studied many many different new types of neuron and many different
connections that they have a detailed map of how these are connected but there's still a lot more
details to to figure out to see how exactly it works so each of these columns has a similar
connection to some other cortical area sorry brain areas like as you said like plate cells
thalamus very good time back and forth sending back and forth information to that kind of
almost coordinates or manages the information processed by these cortical columns it's like a
call center but these are all theories like over time there are more functions found for thalamus
example it's not just a call center that coordinates cortical columns and other things but
and numenta jeff hawkins he had had his own theory he's a like i think he's a really good
neuroscientist in one in a rare case that a businessman is also a neuroscientist they
They invested in neuroscientific experiments to really using a scientific approach, unlike
other companies, find out, like focus on what this, focus on one problem and find out what
this critical column does as a scientific question.
Not to produce, not to be worried too much about the application, because if you want
for each experiment, find application for that particular experiment.
You won't be able to find out how the cortical column works, for example.
So he invested this money there.
There are other businesses as well, like Allen Institute, like co-founder of
Microsoft, Paul Allen is less famous than Bill Gates, but he was actually the
initially the brain of Microsoft was Paul Allen, but he later, um, using the
money that obviously got rich so island institute is one of the like big companies also island
institute invests in basic science in the sense that when they do a research or when they map
you know pounds etc they don't for each project they don't look for how much business value it
brings to them immediately so they they do uh basic right science which is similar to academia a bit
So Numenta, because of that, Numenta and Allen Institute have been able to achieve some basic
finding, understanding similar to what is done all the time in academia.
So, but they are more famous because, probably because their companies and their companies
usually get more publicity.
And yeah, this is a very recent finding by Numenta that in line with their basic science research that cortical columns, they understood more things about cortical columns in a similar way that many, like thousands of, let's say like for cortical column, maybe hundreds of neuroscience working on that area.
So NUMENTA research centers or other research centers alongside of them.
So they found interesting results about like how the location or place of the
at each understanding is correct at the level of cortical column in that
basic or versatile computing unit.
It kind of takes into account the location all the time.
It uses it's using optical recognition and other functions
So they are kind of driving
Numenta is also driving the progress of
Science as well
Neuralink is good in like methods. For example, there are currently some
Surgical techniques and stuff like that
Which also helps science as well, but therefore this
he's not driving science necessarily right now but numeta is so that i was also fascinated by
um and also jeff hopkins i think he's real scientist that uh he's driving this
using more or less a good approach and that's why he is his like teams or his labs are
have achieved in understanding
New things about protocol. Sorry, I couldn't speak very well because it's early morning here. It's like 6 o'clock.
This has been great. Yeah, thank you for diving deeper into Numenta and Neuralink. I'm sure many people are interested in both companies since that's the topic. Leonard, are you up for chatting? I'm inviting more people up, but go ahead.
yeah i just i i love what um sabal was saying and i'm still like you know cooking and trying to do
that but i think um eric weinstein's working on some of this work and i'm just kind of listening
and taking it in and i think um my only thought just to stimulate conversation is the bridge
between the chemical research of the brain or the human brain you know how we function versus
a simulated mind i mean my company we've been working on machine intelligence neural network
database the way we're clustering it is that sort of human computer interaction and um how we kind
of focus on decision theory and probability theory versus the earlier healthcare you know
ramifications which i think is just really vital um and what stimulates you know our processes
going back historically all the way from human history and so you know why are some people
inclined to be x versus y how are they able to overcome circumstances yada yada and when you
start just doping in that into true ai outside of the computational side you know artificial
intelligence encompasses that psychological uh side of philosophy and questioning what is it to
be human what is it to exist you know whether you're human or not all these things as variables
and then what do we measure as this this output um you know it's interesting because me and my
girlfriend were watching a movie um uh dan brown's movie what am i thinking of um what was it we
just saw it yesterday and it was all the da vinci code and so you you you cross over that with um
the original one with um religion and belief in society a little bit of science and so forth so
there's just a cross intersection there that fascinates me um uh but our my focus has been
more on the narrow side of uh economics and decision probability theory human decision
making science and things but uh and decision quality and so forth but when you can encode
that whether it's semantic neural language processing you know if it's encoded binary by
by structure or syntax or semantics um if you really can get this machine to infer to really
draw inference so let's say if we get the hybrid of taking um alpha go over at deep mind and then
applied that to the human across the board you know are we really looking at a true agi um and
artificial general intelligence you know and are we really trying to get closer to that and what
does that mean for us so i'm still pondering and fascinated by both sides of it but um it was great
that um i'm not sure if i think it's shakal shahel if i'm pronouncing your name correctly
pronounce your name so hey so hey okay i'm following you so hey so love to follow up with
you at any time and uh for anyone who's considered my my in my profile my email's there um about work
and stuff like that to drill down deeper and micah knows this um but you know yeah it's just
it's a great room like that you're doing and uh i've been following early for a while because
it's interesting that i think um and they're getting closer to start just going off the grid
here of when we start looking at edge computing and devices and the data up the data up feed
and download feed what can really be possible you know and so um if we can see a world with that and
as a side note for some of the room uh for some of the guys here girls and guys excuse me um
you guys might like um i didn't participate this last sunday but there's a sci-fi talk
that Dr. Hollis has
I think she said Berkeley or somewhere
up in Northern California
every Sunday on Clubhouse
it's a sci-fi room
it's a sci-fi talks or something
and they kind of just go over these hybrid
things of what's science fiction
and what will become science fact
because a lot of this has led us to where we are now
in this technology of at least
imagining, envisioning
and then looking at new models
and new ways to do things versus the
repetition of applying certain data models to old axiom or paradigms because there's always
someone in a lab that's kind of reinventing the wheel so to speaking that's kind of how we've
gotten to where i think we are in this world right so you know i don't think we discover anything
in my opinion we rediscover you know how to use electricity because i just keep always
building back to my favorite innovator which i just kind of love and you know my girlfriend will
say i'm obsessed with him but that's nikolai tesla and if anyone knows and i'm not talking
about tesla the car man in fact i'm talking about nikolai tesla who patented all this and it's
something that i've done already but when you drill down in this work you know he's been able
to connect this in the 1800s and we're just seeing a fruit uh from that tree so those are my few
works that's interesting you know i think you mentioned decision uh yeah decision making is
one of the few areas of the brain that is more understood kind of well understood and there are
very good models that can describe how the brain circuits do decision making but in certain context
and limited context but because there are many many things that the brain does and we don't
understand but decision making is one of the areas that is relatively more advanced and more
understand understood in detail so i think that's why it's a very good area to target for
maybe we are in that stage that we can find applications so i think that's a good approach
in my opinion from my knowledge of neuroscience i think it's a good area to try to find applications
for and yeah decision making and it's one of those areas and about chemical um yeah we
activity is just one aspect of one of the dimensions of the brain activity and
neurotransmitters also neuropeptides neuropeptides kind of slower slower than neurotransmitters also
genes gene expressions these are like three more layers that they are being studied but
these are not like integrated so they closely rate to electroactivity gene expression another
and other more complex molecules work together to build the function of the neurons far away
from understanding them so yeah there are complexities about chemical versus electrical
activity as well but still more research it needs to be there and there are already like
hundreds of thousands of groups working on brain but it's moving so slowly and there's lack of
funding because we studying each small question requires like a six month or a year of work of
some people in the lab to work on brains to find out answers so that's the main limiting factor
uh how much funding in science research we have sorry i digressed a bit uh but yeah it's great
that we're using i think if you for example find out how people make decisions and how brain state
of people are in learning and we can already there is i'm i personally know about one um
application i haven't used like for example qeg you might actually use qeg i don't know
but qeg already is useful in that because you can see like um like at a very very rough level
but at least that's that rough map of activity of your brain at least tells you what the state
of your brain is at least you will know i don't know if you're kind of anxious in a certain sense
or how focused you are or maybe it gives you some indicators some just indicators of your decision
it's like for example like very um but that might be still useful for very actually useful for people
who are like students who want to learn or people who might think why am i not learning this and then
when they see their brain in the mirror of this qeg like metaphoric
Mirror, not really. Then they can see, oh, because kind of there is a bit of anxiety sitting there. I'm just talking allegorically, not literally. Okay, my brain is not dysfunctional, for example. It's not that I cannot learn. That thing sitting there doesn't allow me to think.
So let me sort it out and then they change the brain of,
they set off the brain a bit and maybe it takes practice.
And then they see they learn better and then,
so they don't fall into trap of,
oh, my brain is not working, I cannot learn,
I'm not, so I'm not intelligent or something like that.
This kind of trap or trap of helplessness
that people fall into.
These have great benefits for people.
can be used even now so are you uh leonard are you kind of um sorry nobody's saying something i
i just asked my question oh no are you are you using some uh something already or like in your
well and my research touched upon it i apologize when i'm multitasking because i'd like to get
if i'm going to be on stage be more devoted like with other activities for for education and stuff
like that i mean can you elaborate how you think that can be used for education in more detail
yeah 100 what 100 i think what you're touching upon is is like well first of all and i was a
former maroon says in the united states marine corps so you're talking about soldiers learning
a new trade or new skill um or dealing with you know psd post-traumatic you know stress syndrome
or ptsd i guess i would say um how do they cope right so um sometimes it's just uh it's interesting
to me personally as my experience because i'm older than 42 but it's it's like you'll see
where it's reinforcement learning if you know ai machine learning you're in that space that's all
that's being reiterated to the brain like we're just looping in a sense i call it looping and
you're just reiterating the same thought pattern or which are actually separate chemically and
separate from neurons but they're just sort of uh isolating about 80 of that repetitive pattern
that says you can or cannot do x or y or z or you're still dramatically going through this
when when that movement you know that you know that that memory is sort of in the cortex of the
brain that's still feeding that into people which makes um these individuals relive that that
situation um and even produce the chemicals you know within their brain to relive it um i think it
can be applied in educational efforts 100 i just believe that um you know old school we would go
by i'm calling old school versus old world you'd go by the discipline of just um you know and i
think even tony robbins and other these are in the u.s sorry i'm speaking to the u.s you know the u.s
audiences tony robbins is a motivational speaker and there's a lot of these people that used to
say you know just think you'll believe it and just keep reiterating that and you know you're
able to kind of come out of your circumstances and change your life trajectory but a lot of
this um has been studying and research that what occurs during these people going through this
process for a couple of years or two or two to five years joining programs such as landmark or
whatever they join these programs and they're changing their chemical structure in their own
brain because that neuroplasticity which was spoke upon earlier about an hour and a half ago or so
and i'm just going to touch upon that are the neuro you know the plasticity of the human brain
that it could actually, even though it was hard-coded, it could actually remode itself
almost like a computer or a simulation or an AI, right?
Because we all know that AI, in a sense, is everything software.
And if you just have a hardware model, you can send data to that hardware model to update it or upgrade it.
But the software is the fluidity part of it or the plasticity part of it that allows us to expand.
And that's how we as humans can look at space.
You know, my chairman is the former program director of NASA, Dr. Alexander Naraki.
And he, you know, and I'm pleased to always have him as a friend.
But he helped program the International Space Station.
I mean, he managed 1,200 engineers.
And I was asking him, why were you guys successful?
Why did you think you would be successful of sitting the space station up there?
Because it's been about 20 years since it's been up there, 25 years.
and he's like well we knew if we just did the work and but at some point you know there was a
belief and that goes even further um for them to be able to add to that and then have it continuously
work i mean we as humanity have created some great feats um and have overcome a lot of you know
troubles and i think we we can continue to do so as long as we're we're reminded of the science
and the knowledge and the technology and the belief
in what we can do versus what we cannot do.
So I was trying to finish up on that thread
or touch up on that thread of the human plasticity of the brain,
of being able to sort of chemically neurons switch.
And then over time, I think in some of the neuroscience in the room,
it made me use as to speak to this,
where I believe it kind of becomes a fixed mindset versus a,
a growth mindset i think one of the psychologists at stanford did a study on that for years
and basically what she was pointing out was that it literally there was a part of the brain that
literally it's like frozen like a cube of ice which just shocked me you know 15 years ago
whatever it just really surprised me that our brains could be that hard wired but we do have
the ability to melt that sort of ice uh so i've uh i've been listening to uh leonard and so hey
um and uh david came back welcome back david uh in terms of uh agency uh or choice uh well both
let's talk about both but um um you know so we have the the feeling of of of agency um
and we were talking about how uh if you don't have if you're into if you're uh if you're
So if your interneuron system is dysfunctional, if it's disrupted, I guess if your glial cells are damaged and you have interneuron dysfunction, I guess your immune system could cause your glia to be destroyed and then your brain is not producing enough inhibition.
And so your inhibition is off the rails.
And some examples, you know, if you have too much excitement in one area, you may have a compulsivity disorder, right?
You may interrupt people too much.
You may, I don't know, you may have too much stress, you know, like maybe there's some link between PTSD or OCD in certain parts of the brain that are stimulating.
like basically overstimulated and so if you could if you could uh basically stimulate stimulate
those uh those parts of the brain with um with a low frequency uh stimulation and induce uh l t l d
l d l t d low um um basically the idea is that you could make that behavior go away and and um
So basically, by using either high-frequency stimulation like 10 hertz or low-frequency stimulation at 1 hertz to stimulate or inhibit different areas of the brain, you could cause behavior improvements for people who are having a variety of mental issues, including issues with self-agency or issues with feeling like they have choice.
And with devices like Neuralink and perhaps also the open water technology you were talking about,
like, you know, potentially stimulation with acoustic, opto-acoustic stimulation, you know,
which has sub-millimeter precision, then perhaps we could think about, like, devices where you can really address
some of these issues that people have around the world
in terms of their brain is just not firing
the way other people's brains are.
And so they would have more treatment options, I think.
I'll pause there for a second.
If you wanted to respond, Leonard, or anyone.
I did not send David down there. If anyone wants to come up and talk, you just raise your hand. We've had some accidental movements today. People are welcome to come back up.
Yeah, I have no idea what's happening there. That was weird. But, so yeah, so agency, yeah, so agency with inhibition. That's, I mean, I could, I could go deeper. I, decision theory.
So there was a situation where, I believe it was, I think it was 2015, scientists came
and they said, we've figured it out twice in the brain, it's these neural circuits in
the prefrontal cortex, right?
That's where it's happening.
And we've got this computer model that proves it, or not proves it, it demonstrates how it
works.
And so there was these articles that neuroscientists identify a brain circuit that controls decision-making at MIT.
And then there was something.
Oh, let me see if I can.
I think I saved it.
Let me rotate to decision theory.
Oh, I just saved it so I could pull it up again.
This is weird.
Oh, okay.
okay so there's a paper uh check you can check it out it's called uh working memory and decision
uh making in the frontal uh parietal circuit model right uh david's back that's weird he's
coming in and out uh i'm assuming i have a very bad connection marker that's that's why i'm trying
to listen in but uh internet's not uh helping me out at the moment okay no problem um we'll we
understand so yeah so we didn't know why what was happening but but thanks for saying that
um so working memory and decision making uh in this uh in a frontal bridal circuit um they
created this really amazing check to take out this article i should probably link this but i have
the feeling my twitter is is uh isn't i think twitter doesn't like me linking all these really
nice research articles or something i don't know but i'm just kidding i'm using twitter too much
So they're like, you can't do it today.
I'm like, okay, all right.
But I'll link the articles another time.
So the article is called Working Memory and Decision Making in a Frontal Parietal Circuit Model.
So if you look that up, you'll see the article.
And they created this basically nice computer models of how decision making works.
And I remember reading this a long time ago.
I think this was a 2017 paper.
and if you look at the pictures below they they sort of like explain how uh how the uh decision
is the decision is is being diagrammed uh by uh by neurons firing it's really cool and i was so
convinced at the time but then i read this book uh called the neural basis of free will a criterial
causation and he had a better idea and i'm still convinced by his idea i still think it's a better
idea but the idea is that uh okay so the neocortex is self sort of self-similar across the entire
cortex so if you have decision making happening in one area of the cortex and arguably it's happening
everywhere right same mechanical process everywhere and uh so this guy who wrote the
neural basis of free will criteria causation uh peter his last name is tse uh i should really
just figure out remember i should remember how to pronounce the name i i because i talk about his
book all the time and uh so he has this the neural basis of free will is like your neurons are
detecting information and they're they're um the neurons uh in coordination they're detecting like
the basic uh basic roots of information and the cortical columns uh are taking these detections
and and uh so so in some sense neurons and uh and neural circuits are reacting to incoming
information uh by uh setting the criteria for how for what is necessary for them to react in the
future so if you have if you have a neuron that um let's say that say that uh the idea is that the
um the it's going to store a temporal memory it's going to store like okay there's a song
and you're going to have the neuron remember when in time a certain beat happens
so it can predict that song when you hear it again.
And so some ideas are that we'll have spikes on the dendrite that will,
I think I'm saying it right, I think it's spikes on the dendrite
that will represent the temporal memory.
Uh, and, and they're going to help the, the, the, the dendrite to, um, to resist firing, except in the case of a situation where it recognizes, uh, a certain pattern and, um, or, or I don't know if it's, or maybe it works a different way.
But the idea is that a dendrite is going to store a long-term memory,
and then so it's going to look for two memories down below it.
I mean, not two memories.
It's going to look for a pattern that's coming into it.
So it could be like two neurons that are –
it could be like the layer of neurons that's closer to the incoming sensory organ.
So that could be your eyes.
So there's the V1 layer, and maybe we're talking about the V2 layer.
Okay, so the V2 layer has a dendrite in it, and it's listening to the V1 layer.
And it's looking for a specific temporal pattern.
So that means that it's going to say, okay, only if these, it's tempo,
and maybe tempo, and maybe there's a spatial dimension,
but if in the case of piano, it's tempo, right?
So it's listening for a specific tempo pattern.
um and maybe oh so maybe maybe so piano uh would would be phasic right because it's not just
tempo and it's not spatial but it's it's phasic there's something characteristic about about the
piano tune right so so anyway so you'd have uh you know you you have at least one neuron would
be listening for when that tune is gets struck and so there would be some sort of sparse
distributed signal in the in the in the audio cortex um that uh because because we're talking
about piano and uh then you'd have a dendrite that's listening for the tune to land at a certain
point because if it doesn't land at that certain point it's a different song you got to have a
certain sort of like um you know a temporal pattern to recognize the song even if you change
the pitch of the song right so your brain is is doing this um somewhere in the brain the this
temporal recognition of patterns is happening and maybe it's dendrite and then um when that
recognition happens you see the neuron has to either the neuron itself has to change so that
it's reacting to that pattern or um or the neural circuit has to change that neuron so it's reacting
to that pattern um and and that means that uh uh so that means that the basis of decision making
is at the neural level or neuronal level because basically the idea is that
a neuron is deciding is detecting information and deciding whether to react based upon the criteria
that it sets for when it's going to fire when it's going to react and when you choose when
you're going to react that's that's the that is the microscopic version of a macroscopic thing
and um and uh so it's it's it's also really interesting that yeah so um so maybe if you
you if you if you don't if you like if you don't if you feel like you are too impulsive like you're
interrupting people too much for it's a common example that we can all appreciate yeah the club
has there's always that the person who comes in the room and they and they just they won't they
won't pause themselves to let other people speak and and if you and then they'll interrupt right
it's fun until they until it until it's not but um the uh the idea is so maybe that person is having
uh a failure uh or a difference in their interneuron system where it's over stimulated
and we are um we are more inhibited and our inhibition gives us uh some additional agency
uh and so how does that how does that how does that connect to um you know our neurons so maybe
our neurons uh are setting their own criteria uh and our neurosurgeons are sitting on their own
criteria and inhibition has something to do with that as well i'm curious and and um in the
yeah so let me just pause there and i have more of it
I'll pause there.
An aspect of what is, that was interesting. An important aspect is, lots of things are happening at the micro-architectural level, in the sense that, yeah, individual neurons, each of them, more or less, they take some patterns, so, it's not like there's a piece of tissue, sorry, there's a piece of tissue that does it,
computation it's not like a like a mushy piece of like tissue but each individual neuron
their dendrites and complex pattern of connection with other neurons
can detect certain patterns so they distribute and calculations and pattern detections and
predictions as you say exactly i just said um between themselves and yeah do detailed
computations and pattern detection so lots of things are happening at the micro
circuits it means to understand this so a circuit a small piece of circuit is microscopic really
yeah you said many other points i just wanted to um because usually there is kind of misunderstanding
that when when for example signals are recorded uh in eeg or electrodes like uh not a micro
electrode a metal which was like eeg that level of details are not seen and lost uh so we need to
Each neuron can be seen like a person who is working at a big organization or corporate.
So each neuron has lots of sophisticated and elaborate computations, including what you described in a nice way.
That's the point I wanted to emphasize.
Wow, thank you.
um that was really fantastic uh because the what the microscopic picture of what you just said
is uh sort of similar to the macroscopic picture that namenta is describing
um and that's very very interesting um so by the way do you know of a paper that sort of
encapsulate in cat encapsulates that i'll probably end up finding something but if you
think of a great one so which aspect because you what you describe you
describe many things actually do you mean about the micro circuits or you are
talking about that kind of inhibition thing or I talk about the layers that you
mentioned or oh activity because you touched on many so which what you said
specifically, about neurons distributing calculations, or neurons distributing pattern detection,
or neurons distributing complications between themselves. That specifically is something that
at the micro level, that would be great to pull up in a research paper because that sort of helps
define a little bit more about what's happening at the cortical column and micro column level,
but also there's an analogy to large-scale things that Numenta, the big picture things
that Numenta is talking about. So if you can think of a paper that sort of like describes
neurons distributing calculations and pattern detections and computations that's um yeah yeah
so basically so this has been the main paradigm or kind of way of thinking in neuroscience since
40s i would say at least even ramon kajal when he
found out that
the neurons, like individual neurons
have like elaborating complex
branches and
arboration and stuff like that
I don't know if whether
he postulated the functional
distributing functions
across to it, but I think even like
before 20th century by
Robin Cajal, I think it was probably
thought of
Oh, you're talking
you were referring to
general sparse distributed reputation yeah but but in general again to obviously to have a better
understand it's better to see uh latest research like romantos paper actually would be the
the one that may speak for that because it kind of culminates or uh like describes the kind of
refined view that we have over the the decades but i'm saying like this kind of micro view that
the micro secrets are there has been like main actually in maybe 40s uh like in the earliest
neural networks even like artificial neural networks are based on that picture yeah because
in our general networks are neurons that they elaborate weights and the weights between the
neurons are important and each each weight can be uh more or less contributing to the computation
so connections models that the roots go back to 40s which is actually almost precede the first
computers so this has been around but but a good paper for that maybe maybe
the new or maybe there's like our books about like synaptic organization in the
brain etc yeah many things yeah I cannot like point to one yeah no I I get it no
I I am you're talking about I just remember there was a book that was kind
of emphasizing this on this kind of micro micro circuit thing I forgot the
name of the person are okay later but as i said earlier maybe numenta because they try to give the
their work is kind of try to focus on what is that this microcircuit in that column maybe that's the
level the right level of saying things this is leonard hey leonard yeah can you send me or email
me you did speak of that earlier and um i'm kind of cross-referencing what um you were asking
earlier so i'll mention that paper about decision i think it was decision mapping or decision uh
theory a little bit on circuitry um i know it's an older paper but if you when you get a chance
whenever just um email me it's in my my emails in the profile but yeah i'd love to look at that
paper because i think there's a cross correlation of what you just said what you alluded to and what
so i was talking about um and i hope i'm pronouncing your name so how correctly because i'm always doing
network pronunciations but um so my please i beg your forgiveness but um it's a matter of
i'm in a multitasking which i shouldn't be doing but it's a matter of um the correlation i think
of circuitry and decisions and then the inference of the human mind slash brain or what we've kind
of taking in sensory perceptions um and so some of that i i just see a cross vector there that's
I just thought of something about the neural link and the detector in the brain.
So I think previously the detector, the electrodes are recording the potential or voltage as a unit of potential.
But are there any devices that detects the magnetic field in the brain?
because the current, if there is a current, there is always a magnetic field.
And so either you measure the strength or neuroscience, or is it too good?
Because I never met.
Yes, there is.
Sorry, I might say they're wrong.
Magnetoencephalography.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I didn't want to say something that is wrong.
yeah that is actually very promising because it's a device that it's quite a big device it's
very heavy and it's very expensive because it has to detect very very uh subtle magnetic
fluctuations in the magnetic field but this is
Actually, it has been one of the very promising ones that it can detect to a good precision, much, much better than EEG, for example.
Less resolution than electrodes putting their microelectroses and ligaments inside the brain, but still good precision.
But the problem is that it's a big divide. It's heavy. Also, it needs to be very close to the head, so it cannot be used to read people's minds on the street or something like that.
But MEG is very promising, but it's quite still inexpensive.
I see.
So I suppose that precludes the possibility of just like the electrodes inserting into the brain.
So, at least presently, the magnetoencephalography is not be miniaturized enough to be able to insert it.
sorry can i can i correct something just so it i think it can get as much as the precision that we
can so it it speak so one barrier is that they speak but also there's another inherent uh limitation
in the resolution of information that in principle it can get that's also a limitation but in the
non-invasive methods i think it's highest resolution uh so among all the the uh among
all the non-invasive um uh instrumentation uh this is the highest this is of the highest resolution
is that what you say yeah as far as i understand yes from what i have seen i see yeah so yeah i
I mean, like EEG, I'm just speaking from a physics point of view.
I don't know, because if you just put the electrode outside the brain
and then if you have a distribution of charges inside the brain,
basically a close to compact region,
then you won't get the, if you just record the potential,
you won't get a unique solution for the distribution of charges.
And I suspect the, it's this, I haven't worked out the thing,
but I suspect, I think, I suspect it's the same for the magnetic field as well.
So, but maybe it's better than EEG if it is outside.
So I think if you can get inside, just like the electrode going inside, insert it into the brain, you'll get a better, I mean, if you insert the magnetic detector inside the brain, you'll get a better resolution of the neural firing and currents.
So is that the case?
or so you're saying you use the eg but um in a smaller scale so that we can bring it inside so
we can we can use it closer to neurons or yes yes yes yes that's what i'm saying i don't know if
that's using it might be used but that i think your physics intuition is is correct that it's
quite higher resolution so the micro electrode that goes actually there it has the highest
resolution but i didn't get what you do or um what was the cons what was kind of disadvantages in
your opinion this the main disadvantage for electrodes is that it gets a too narrow view
like you can see one neuron what it does it's doing so the benefit of em uh meg is that with
good resolution still less than electrodes but uh from a broad range of like population of
neurons across the air region but i didn't get what was your this uh the disadvantage you mentioned
for so so basically what i'm saying is uh the the mvg uh the magnetic field you basically you
measure either the spin or the magnet little magnet spin or the spin that generates the magnetic
field in the brain or the current that that um that's going through in the brain so basically
because current actually generates the uh magnetic field so the um you can i mean either the so there
are two sources right they are actually the same source but my macro one is macroscopic and one is
microscopic so macroscopically you have current let's say neuron conducting the is is there's a
current going through neurons and then it will generate magnetic field and then the others
probably they i don't know about the biology so so i am just saying in principle in physics
so if there is a kind of a magnetic like spin like electrons going around most likely i think
it's the current going in the brain that generates the magnetic field so basically
magnetic field location and strength you just detect the magnetic field outside the brain
and it will suffer the same right because basically the same thing happened but of course
maybe that oh so that's why that's why if you just measure from the outside you won't get the
highest resolution resolution but maybe when you say higher resolution you probably compare it to
still, in principle, you resolve the ambiguity inside the region,
inside the region, and then distribute it as dense as possible inside the region.
Then you can back out the distribution of the charge or the distribution of...
So that's why I'm asking about that.
So I want to comment because...
So what's interesting about MEG is you don't need to attach any electrodes to the scalp
because the magnetic field emerges from the brain,
and through the skull and the scalp without any distortion.
It's not like the skull is causing an issue here.
I understand that, but still, I think...
I know, I know, sorry.
I didn't mean to do a straw man on you, but sorry about that.
But I wanted to say that the MEG signal mostly reflects intracellular currents.
So what you see with MEG and what you see with electrodes is different types of activity.
For example, the radial sources that form the dipoles, the best dipoles for scalp EEG,
these are not well detected by MEG.
Only currents that have a component tangential to the surface of a spherically symmetric conductor
produce a magnetic field outside the scalp.
and um so the spatial resolution of meg is better than eeg but uh but that's um because the magnetic
fields are not scattered and just and distorted by by the skull um but um so that's why we you know
you put electrodes inside the skull and the resolution is massively better i don't think
What happened with MEG. So in practice, MEG source localization is still not accurate because of the model that has assumptions that are overly simplified and they're not adequate to represent the complexity of physics and physiology involved in the human brain under even ideal conditions.
The improved spatial resolution of MEG is insufficient to obtain information about the local circuits
and the layered differential effects in the cortex or about neuronal spikes.
And the necessary requirements for revealing not only the locations,
but also the mechanisms of neuronal operations.
and and there's a further problem and um which is um that uh you know when you have if you're
thinking about the oscillations of the brain uh if they might be very they you know the idea is
your brain has like lots of different kinds of oscillations and these oscillations are changing
all the time and uh but from from from the big picture these oscillations are sort of like
interfering with each other so much that the brain I am I may not be saying this correctly
because I'm just learning about this now but uh it it I guess it could be the case that if you have
um so many uh oscillations happening at the same time and it just looks like pink noise and um
but uh but the brain can can you know as a whole like you know sort of like seem to represent a
pink noise state but then bounce back into into you know something that that's just like the
illusion of like all the different oscillations sort of like canceling each other out and so i
mean i i don't know like i think that the trying to use med to decode um what's happening in the
brain layer by layer and neuron by neuron might be possible but i think that what needs to
um perhaps improve is basically uh a new computer model of of um a new mathematical model of uh and
a predictive model of um oscillatory changes uh in the brain and and and so like you're
It's like decoding this really complex electromagnetic pattern
from the complexity of something that just appears to be noise
that has some structure to doing something like a Fourier transform
where you're figuring out what are the frequencies in different layers
in different regions, because it's all going to mix together, right,
from the perspective of your sensors, unless you've got, unless you have,
you know, but you can't, like, you can't use electric electrodes
in an MEG machine, because it's a magnetic machine, right?
So you have to, if you're sticking to sensors inside the brain,
they can't be magnetic if you're going to use MEG,
and that's another sort of logistical issue.
Yeah, okay. I learned quite a bit on this subject. I just want to, well, I mean, I think
what I was saying was a bit more specific. Basically, I tried to basically take in this
as a, just compute the distribution of the charges and the current as for how the current
originate from the biological process. I'm not concerned about that yet. I'm just talking
about the distribution of the current. So what I'm saying is that the, yeah, I agree
that the magnetic field is not distorted much by the skull or the surface interface of the
scope and the air. But the reason for the lower resolution of the electric, to solve for the
electric charge distribution inside the brain through EEG is not just the distortion of the
electric field. I mean, so long as we know the boundary condition or the interface condition,
we can still resolve that issue, but the more fundamental issue is that basically
the potential does not uniquely the solution of charge distribution in the interior.
So that's why it's not about the change in the boundary, how the boundary changes the electric field.
So it's the outside, the non-uniqueness of the solution.
So that's the problem.
And it's a fundamental mathematical problem.
And then, so the same thing,
actually I highly suspect the same thing happens.
Okay, so I'll accept your physics-based argument
that we could get improved resolution of the whole brain
Even if we couldn't do a four-dimensional Fourier transform to figure out what part of the brain that the holistic model was representing, like the individual neural layers or individual neurons.
But I don't know, because we don't put electrodes on people with MEG.
It's a big machine that surrounds your head.
And so getting closer to your brain means removing your entire skull.
That's what I...
But isn't the neural link...
Yeah, I know what you're saying. It's invasive. I completely understand that, but I'm talking about, I'm looking into, say, doing the same thing as the neural link is doing, inserting the electrode inside the brain.
So if technology allows, can we put also magnetic field detectors inside the brain as well?
Yeah, that's a different, I don't know, that's a different question than, because MEG is outside your skull.
So then we're not talking about MEG, but that's a different kind of magnetic field detection.
I don't know the answer.
But by the way, Leonard, I sent you, let's look that up, let's research that, Hanson, let's find out.
And maybe there's, maybe we'll discover something that already exists.
Leonard, I sent the email to you that you requested.
Thank you very much, Micah. I got it, by the way, Eddie. I was just going to ask Hanson, but I don't want to continue this thread, but you kind of covered it already, which was, yeah, if we're talking about electromagnetic resonance or imaging and demonstration, you've almost answered my own question, Micah, which was there can't be invasive and non-invasive at the same time.
these two will cancel each other out so if you're looking at I was going to ask if you're doing this
in the lab versus theoretical mathematical models have you been backing away and reading
sort of the electromagnetic imaging and resolution
From the subject and or subjects. And are you just modeling it that way? Or are you just, you know, putting forth the hypothesis, which is fine, you know, because everyone's always thinking of what the model could be? Because I think at the end of the day, you're right, you're going to cancel one or the other out. It's neither connected to the skull or to the actual nodes of the brains or the cells, or it isn't. And what data are you reading? And what's going to be your input-output from that standpoint?
way and are you further distance because earlier i was thinking quantum entanglement um but listening
more it sounds like you're you're going down a path of either you know it's neither a physical
connection yet you're you're trying to you know do an ad testing model and i'm just i'm asking a
question i'm not making a statement i don't know i understand so i'm uh i'm not talking about the
quantum mechanical effect yet, and I don't think we can detect the quantum mechanical
effect at this stage with all the noise and all that. But anyway, I'm talking about the
classical, classical electrodynamic phenomena. I'm just trying to see basically, I think
the purpose of the electrodes sticking into the brain is to detect the charges or the charge
distribution deduce the current as well so that's why i'm so and then whether so um there there
there is uh there are uh electromagnetic field detectors they're about the size of a walkie
talkie and they're just they're called emf meters um i've never heard of anyone putting this inside
the human brain this might be a really good idea you should jump on on on uh on developing a product
that does that you'll sell to millions of neuroscientists who are will be very curious
i'm sure yeah i mean uh it's the biggest barrier for our understanding to more understanding of the
brain and also better interfaces is better resolution any method that can make that
possible any method that can improve that would advance this science of it
also the application everything so it's a good and I think in principle people
in physics especially experimental physics can help that so I think the
next breakthrough would be physics so I think about those ideas but the MEG
resolution is millimeters so it's spatial resolution like things smaller a few millimeters
it cannot use it but in terms of temporal resolution it's milliseconds and another point
is that uh in principle cannot be more than mri because mri is also magnetic but it's active so
it's uh resonance so mri with mri they could achieve less smaller millimeter voxels but it
requires high magnets but the idea of bringing things now closer to the surface rather invasive
not non-invasive any method that can show us a higher resolution of very very big breakthroughs
global prizes are awaiting there for these kind of discoveries by physicists that's uh
argument was that sorry my argument was that the resolution cannot be more than
my only subset of that uh yeah the electrical field i've seen a lot of studies and actually
it's really uh the electric fields to my um like magnetic i haven't seen uh i haven't like
looked for papers in that but i think there is uh there might be a kind time constant sorry um
kind of special constitution i'll do i doubt that they have so i did find i did find i was
just gonna say i did find i did find a project while y'all were talking i looked it up and uh
so there was uh the uh national science foundation uh awarded uh some researchers money to basically
create a wireless neurosensing diagnostic system that's basically they called it emf biosensors
that would be implanted neurosensors and the goal is to detect brainwaves and they were awarded
something like eight hundred thousand dollars to do this research the goal was to the goal of the
project this was in 2013 december 2013 the goal was to develop a fully passive intracranial sensing
system this novel electronic brain machine interface uses an implantable miniaturized
neurosensor based upon microwave scattering back scattering miniature textile antenna
and rf circuits on flexible polymer substrate has the unique properties of only minor heating
thus minimizing image image injury and trauma to the brain and so uh so i'm going to post this
i'll post this on twitter a little bit later but um but yeah if you just look up um if you type in
physiological studies of brain imp of brain signals using a wireless neurosensing dash diagnostics
System. You'll get it. Now, actually, this sounds a lot like Furoxa Microwave Imaging.
So, because here's what they said, is they basically said that, you know, this novel electronic brain-machine interface uses an implantable miniaturized neurosensor based upon microwave backscattering.
So if you type into your browser, you type in Furoxa, it's spelled F-U-R-A-X-A dot com.
You'll see this is called Furoxa Microwave Imaging.
And I didn't connect the idea of Furoxa Microwave Imaging being potentially connected to, you know, basically EMF.
But it is, right?
So, yeah, so you can check out those two things if you want.
Are you going to put it on your Twitter, right?
Yes, I will.
I'll do that.
Let me see if I can do that right now.
So, Furoxa, by the way, Furoxa Microwave Imaging is really exciting.
So I often mention, like, you know, Neuralink, and I'll talk about Open Water and EIT and, you know, EIT plus deep learning.
um but uh furoxa is the other one furoxa is the other major sort of like new medical imaging
technology coming along and it's it's so it's really interesting that like i didn't like when
i'd like when i looked this up and i was like microwave technology from an emf sensor oh furoxa
that is a major brain computer interface technology so let me just read this one
yeah so uh i did that one go ahead uh i guess i'll i'll just read it uh but i guess if you have
a quick answer then i'll just ask uh the the the microwave is it uh is it saying that using some
kind of a fiber um going into the brain and then uh generate uh basically a waveguider and then
generate or shoot microwave inside from inside the brain I haven't I don't
know okay but let me know when you find out I have I the first time I read the
paper I just I read the paper and like I don't understand anything and that was
years ago that was years ago sorry guys I have to come and go because of my words
yeah i gotta go i also have to go i have to go to i just pop into i just thought of uh
my question and pop into yes wonderful uh leonard the room is yours if you want to take it over
because we're all leaving no i know i know mike let's do this again i love it it's 12 for me
midnight i need to go as well but um i think we should maybe schedule more of this going in the
future because I love the thought process of where are we going with all of this and
he touched upon something else and I think but I don't want to keep the room going longer
I think by its nature of microwave it's going to be external but in a very local distance within
like a two feet perimeter but that's just my thought I'll read the paper when you put it on
Twitter or something or when I find it myself but yeah thanks for hosting I think we should do this
again and you know thank you guys for coming in everyone great and i'll post additional links in
the facebook group uh which is called um it's the facebook group has the same title as this chat so
if you look on facebook and you type the same the same chat you're in right now neural link numenta
neurophysics nerve gear happy hour that's the name of the facebook group and i'll post links
there too and i'll send some links i'll email some links to leonard good night everybody
