=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0300y tom Beak part 1 Brain Holism
First recorded: 2021-05-05T20:19:30.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/e85be591-4963-4544-9ad7-028a51f2d819
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Can I, can I?
There's a, there's a massive difference between those two things, and it's human arrogance to presume that the words that we create are somehow reflective of underlying truths. Does that make sense?
Yeah, I think so, and I apologize for using axioms, I could have just said rules, that's in, but then even there I'm assuming a definition that can be mutually shared, and at some point you go,
well, at what point can we even say anything to anyone else, because there can be no ever basically perfect definition that can, because of this uniqueness, there's nothing that can be said,
and while there is this acknowledgement that everything and everyone is unique, just as you're saying, I don't disagree with this, but the inherent purpose of language is to, yes, acknowledge its imperfection,
but ultimately utilize those, the amazing part that things can be closely represented between two people, so much so that we can actually accomplish an agreed-upon task.
Because otherwise, if we get into points about definitions and uniqueness of definitions to anyone's particular self, then no progress can be made at all beyond the individual, because no individuals can cooperate.
And cooperation is the way in which we gain traction and actually construct things in an emergent system.
Cooperation and ultimately symmetry matching, or saying that two things can come together and work, quote-unquote work together, is the way in which emergence happens, that you have to have some sort of imperfection,
but an acknowledgement of that imperfection is what you're asking for, but this has been recognized for a very long time.
And so I am still unsure what to say in the sense that, you know, I acknowledge that what you're saying is true, but even to ask for this ultimate degree of precision is something that would lead us to a place where we don't actually gain any traction.
I would like to respond to what Tom's argument was, not the most recent one, but the one before that, but in general to what Tom is saying.
Tom Beakvane.
This is Michael Bloomberg here.
So I, by the way, thank you everybody for participating in this group.
It's a really cool group.
I'm so glad I stumbled on it.
So thinking about the top-down versus bottom-up.
So I do think that the world is both top-down and bottom-up, that we have, you know, people who do things at a grassroots level, and we have people at high levels that respond, and we have, you know, high-level systems and companies.
Society has hierarchies, right?
But, and I think that in the human brain also there's both top-down and bottom-up.
We have neurons detect information, the criteria of, the neurons detect criteria as coincidence patterns, and they consider information in cortical columns.
But at the top, there's also a top-down process where the brain has to self-regulate brain activity, maintain equilibrium, and regulate the information that's coming in.
So that top-down and bottom-up happens in the brain.
I want to make a counter-argument that our brains are still logical, machine-like, but not like current machines, but machine-like in the sense of machines will happen in the future.
Not like current computers, not like current logic in computers, but logical in the sense that, you know, the brain is collecting information and summarizing it.
It's collecting abstract, sensory-based, multimodal information.
But there's still logic in the sense that we're making multimodal predictions in the world, representations that we're thinking about.
And these sum up into a decision, which is our action to take a step in one direction or another.
And so our brains are still processing information in discrete steps.
It's not computer-like, but it's still computational.
And future machines will be able to do it also.
So I also want to make a point to what Garrett said.
I think that the argument that, you know, the holism versus basically reductionism isn't 100% correct, because there's no way...
There's like, the holism is not really holistic.
What you have is just a more inclusive model.
Anytime you, like...
Holism has to be everything, right?
But there's...
But anytime you're thinking about something, you're subtracting from the whole already.
So you just...
You can never get to holism.
And that's a silly argument, but I just wanted to point that out.
And so we're going to...
My conclusion is organics are actually robot-like, just not the way we understand robots.
And that's it.
Thanks.
Can I respond to Tom?
Actually, I was going to say something really quick about holism.
Sorry.
Wayne has been waiting for a while, and I think he has a question.
Thank you so much, Lilith, for being responsive.
And everybody who's in front of me that hasn't spoken yet, I apologize.
Lilith does these great rooms, and I'm so happy to be involved in this.
I'm going to start with two theoretical points, get to my question, and the specific example of it that I'm looking to get an answer for on this concept of can humans accept truth.
I love the...
First of all, consilience.
E.L. Wilson is a genius.
That's where I first heard the term reading his book called Consilience, and I'm very grateful for that.
I do hear some crosstalk going on, even in this call, meaning that different expertise are not able to integrate their different worldviews, or at least have the same vocabulary or jargon, so that they're able to be talking from the same place and understand each other.
And that's going to come with time.
I love the idea of emergent coming out.
I was going to ask, couldn't this also be like Daniel Kahneman's book of Thinking Fast and Slow, a type 1 and type 2 decision-making process, where one of those is, let's say, dominant, you know, frontal cortex, more emergent.
And the other one is not.
Again, type 1 being the more instinctual response versus type 2, where you move slower and you rationalize and you process the problem.
And that gets me to my question.
Can humans accept the truth?
I would contend, and I'm asking this, couldn't time be a significant variable that has to be considered when we talk about truth?
I first got married 22 years ago, and 14 years into my marriage, I had a drug driving accident and killed someone, and then I went to prison.
Four months after that, my wife asked for a divorce.
And I can assure you that my truth, both about myself and about her, changed dramatically on that visit, four months after I went to prison.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
