=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0301y deep learning in medicine
First recorded: 2021-04-29T22:16:47.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/dcf36de2-b23d-4193-93dc-31c9bebf4a01
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Probably 2006 with CT perfusion softwares and obviously back in the day in 2006-2007 we would rarely rely on the software by itself to make any decisions for us and it was very difficult for us to assess what we were looking at but I can tell you that there has been an exponential learning from the machines as to how to aid us in making
decisions for thrombolysis and clot retrieval or clot extraction how some people call it and in these days there are probably around five or six softwares that we use that are very reliable in detecting early changes in the perfusion studies so what tissue is infarcted, what's the perfusion defect and that's very helpful in selecting patients for revascularization or reperfusion
therapy as we call it so these softwares always obviously they're not foolproof they're not they sometimes can make mistakes under call over call what you're seeing and that's why we use them as an aid rather than the final decision making tool but I can tell you that in the last probably five years really I disagree with what the software tells me and in most cases this
this have been very helpful so I think AI has been very helpful so I think AI has a very it's still learning and obviously learns much quicker than we do and it's very difficult for our biological brains to understand what's happening there and also to accept that there might be a tool that's very sophisticated and it's going to maybe at some stage
outperform our ability to diagnose and manage in medicine but I think that we are leaning leaning towards this direction and I think it's important to know that these tools are there mostly to help us at this stage and not to substitute us and just to give you an just to make a comment on what Reza said about appendicitis most of these softwares they use the normal anatomy as a reference
so obviously if you look at a CT of an abdomen looking for signs of appendicitis they can look different for all patients but the normal anatomy has only so much variation and these softwares they use databases of millions of images and they can flag you what's abnormal not necessarily telling you what the change is if the software is in doubt
and that's why the human vision and the human interpretation becomes very important in decision making so this is there at this stage to help us and I think that this is going to be a slow transition we're not going to one day wake up and AI is going to be dominating medicine
but I think we need to accept that it's going to be faster than we expect and we should use it as much as possible to help us in patient care. Thank you, that's all I have to say.
Hi, may I go next?
Oh, were you before me? What's the order?
Go ahead, I'll wait.
Thank you so much. Yeah, thank you for allowing me to speak. I find topics like this really interesting.
First time I've spoken on the MedTech24 lobby. So yeah, thank you. So I love AI. My background is tech, it's business transformation, digital, etc.
And just really interested in the human side of things as well. So yeah, I do feel AI can enable a lot of use cases that are beneficial to humanity just in general, but also in terms of health.
I do have some concerns. So obviously, there's been some talk about trust. Yeah, so can, can you trust it? And what are the confines of that trust? So, I mean, we all know that AI is as good as the data that it is trained with.
And I think, at present, we also know that there are clear-cut issues with bias in the classification of data, simply because it hasn't necessarily had as much data as we'd like, right?
So I still think we're still in the early stages of this. This is a problem I think can be resolved. But the reality is that when it comes to, yeah, the ethics, you know, I think that there's certain areas we should perhaps have, I would say, treat with caution.
So I do know that even this month, the EU proposed a rule that imposed some standards in terms of data quality testing and oversight on artificial intelligence, and, you know, certain areas were considered high risk with pretty steep fines to boot.
And now on that, wanting to move from trust to ethics, like I said, I do feel that, you know, the data is good as, and we also know that there are issues with ethics, but there are also culturally, certain cultures that, by way of their cultural norms, have not necessarily prioritized data collection, cleansing, and organization.
So, again, we're still early. Another issue in terms of ethics, for me, is access control and governance. So if you think about it, few people have access to AI, it would be great if it was democratized, but I don't think that's going to happen.
It just means that you can create a monopoly. And it's almost like the concentration of power in the hands of very few absolute power, I know, in my view, is a disbenefit. So some sort of oversight on that would be good.
Another ethical issue that I think requires attention is the targeting of vulnerable people. So in the UK, about two years ago, there was a report that talked about certain companies targeting
people like adults, sorry, addicts, alcoholics, and gamblers that they're most vulnerable. So again, the oversight is important, because are we going to allow
the companies running these AIs to police themselves, it's almost like asking someone to mark their own homework.
Another concern for me is the black box effect, because although AI is able to, to learn and diagnose with great precision, what effect does that have on our
collective learning as, is it the guy who just spoke before, I don't know if he's gone, he just said, you know, to some extent, AI might start superseding the information that we
or the knowledge that we have. And if you look at the way in which humans learn, we learn by sort of breaking things down, doing lessons learned,
assessing, you know, just, you know, assessing, and it's basically the feedback loop. Now, if we don't get the feedback loop anymore,
what does that mean, in terms of our collective learning? In 2021, I mean, right now, there are new diseases that exist now that didn't exist 100 years ago,
you know, there's been a huge growth in sort of non-communicable diseases that kind of start in the body.
And if we lose that feedback loop, where will we be in 100 years time? So that's, I think that's a huge concern.
And one other thing I just acknowledged or noted was, there was a documentary, I'm sure you've all heard of it, Coded Bias.
And one of the people that were interviewed there in the documentary said that she trusted the AI over herself in terms of gut instincts.
So my question is, how do you teach AI gut instincts? How do you teach AI morality or empathy? So that, these are just my thoughts.
And I think in terms of liability, it's just a quick comment. I think that that really goes back to the black box issue.
And what I think is fair is that liability should fall with a party who ultimately has the beneficial ownership.
So these are my thoughts. I'm sure you're not finished speaking.
Thank you. That was very interesting.
Should I, uh, should I go?
Please do.
Okay. Um, so I wrote down my notes so I wouldn't forget. Here we go.
So, um, I'm responding to, uh, Dr. Uh, well, he's on the stage as, uh, Reza, right?
Um, I, uh, am not, uh, so...
It's Reza. It's Reza.
Reza. Oh, I apologize. Reza.
Um, I, uh, so, okay, so, um, so, um, so, I, I, so basically I do agree with everything that, uh, that, uh, George said, uh, you're the doctor.
But, um, I wanted to just give a, a small contribution about, um, just a sort of explanation of, of, uh, what I think AI is supposed to do.
And how it can be useful in, um, detecting, uh, novel new images.
And, um, and, but why, why it's, uh, why it's not, uh, perfect now and what needs to change in the future.
So, um, it's not...
Can you introduce yourself, uh, before you start the, the good argument, please?
Okay, sure. Uh, so, I'm, uh, my name is Micah Bloomberg.
And, um, I've been, I've been studying, um, uh, neuro, uh, topics related to neuroscience and computer science, uh, including neural networks.
Since about 2005, uh, I, I also, I write software, including software for brain-computer interfaces, uh, and virtual reality.
Um, and, um, I am, I'm currently writing a book that is about the brain, uh, about neuroscience and, uh, and, and brain-computer interfaces.
Um, let's see.
So, um, with that, I'll go ahead and get started.
And, uh, I've also been writing about science and technology and neuroscience for, for more than six years.
Um, and, uh, so, and artificial intelligence.
So, um, the, uh, so, it's, it's, so, uh, uh, the, the, the statement was, it's not clear how AI could detect, uh, necessarily a particular disease, um, like appendicitis, based upon feeding medical images to a trained, uh, neural network.
If, for example, the disease looks, uh, different in each patient, or if the disease, the disease looks, uh, different, um, each time the patient is scanned.
Um, but, so, I wanted to sort of, like, provide some background on that.
So, the way it's supposed to work, um, is that, uh, is the same way that humans can detect novel patterns.
Uh, a person in, uh, in medical imaging would examine, look for, and identify symptoms, markers, signs, uh, biological correlations, uh, for different diseases.
And each thing that a physician considers with, with their site is, like, a feature detection in deep learning.
Uh, features of disease detection, specifically.
Um, so, both the human and AI would attempt to do some sort of summary of all the features of disease, uh, that they've detected.
And, um, that summary is the sort of bet or diagnosis on what the patient has.
Um, I think the reality, uh, that everyone knows is that AI is not, uh, still not, um, uh, doing this as well as physicians in, in many instances.
Uh, a lot of radiologists complain.
Um, and, uh, and that's for a variety of different, uh, illnesses.
But the, I think that, um, this is the fundamental design issue right now is with the structure of neural networks.
And, um, I think that will be fixed in the future with next generation neural networks that are basically, uh, different because they'll be high dimensional, uh, neural networks.
And, um, and, uh, so I'm really looking at, uh, uh, uh, the work by, at Numenta right now in terms of high dimensional neural networks that will be, uh, worked into future deep learning neural networks.
And, um, so the future medical, another point is, um, that someone else, uh, shared right, right before me, I, I, uh, that would be Shirley, um, is that future medical AI should be providing, uh, doctors with a step-by-step medical analysis breakdown for why a particular conclusion was reached.
And that, that would be like telling the AI to basically go over, uh, uh, to provide a report over each of the features detected and, and why they led up to the conclusion.
And also the AI, uh, would, uh, go over each of the features that were, uh, detected but discarded and, and explain the, why those features were discarded and, and not, uh, uh, contributing to the final conclusion.
And, and, um, that's all I had to say, and, uh, I can just kind of put myself back in the audience. Thank you.
Thank you, Misha. That was so interesting. And also, thank you to Hork and Shirley and, of course, Risa again.
Uh, and, uh, I think it's, uh, very nice that we can, uh, have an introduction of new people in the book.
Uh, but, of course, there should also be, uh, maybe a big space to, to comment of who have, uh, uh, presented themselves.
So, uh, I think, uh, Misha and Hork, I cannot put you back to the speakers list, uh, as I'm not one of the moderators.
Uh, so, placing yourself, uh, in the audience makes you, uh, unable to reply to any comments to what you do.
So, please stay on, on the, on the stage. We like you to do this and there's no pressure to answer everything.
So, thank you very much. Uh, so exciting with the new perspective.
And, uh, please continue to, uh, share here and Arthur, um, present yourself.
Uh, what is your background? And, uh, do you have any comments or discussion?
Thank you. Thank you very much. My, my name is Arthur. I, uh, just quickly, sadly, I have to work.
So, um, I have to leave. I'm so sorry, but, uh, I'll, I'll, I'll come back at some future stage.
Thank you. So, please do get very interesting with all your insights, uh, to the everyday life
and improvement of, uh, artificial intelligence and your work in Australia.
So, thank you for being with us today.
Could we maybe, um, ask, uh, Sahir and Arthur to do a small introduction
and maybe provide your perspective?
Thank you.
Yeah. Thanks. Thank you. I can certainly go. Um, so I'm Sahir. I, uh, my background, uh,
including my PhD was, uh, at the intersection of digital pathology and, and applying
artificial intelligence, machine learning, computer vision, and coming up with novel ways
of sort of interrogating tumor progressions, um, towards precision medicine.
Now, I think, uh, I think a lot, so what 20th century was about diagnostic testing with
these biochemical assays, you know, typically with your blood work is now, I think sort of
the black box is very similar to what's happening with data science based algorithm, right?
I mean, you order a blood test, a lot goes there, which is a lot, which is also black box.
Even if you're a physician, there's a black box effect there as well. Well, we don't tend
to focus on that because there's well-established history there. And so I suspect what's happening
now in 21st century with the data revolution, I mean, you have data scientists as a laboratory
and your computer algorithms are the sort of the assay machinery that, that not everyone
in every, every stage of workflow tend to understand the biochemical, um, uh, areas and things.
And then they also have a similar metric, the sensitivity and the, um, uh, the precision
and the recalls and things like that now. So, so I think if we step back and we see what, what
AI is sort of doing and it's already doing, and it's going to do, uh, I suspect at a, at a pretty
high pace. Now is, is there are, it's not trying to replace the current professions or, or the areas
of, of what's being happening in medicine, but it's actually trying to maintain things from first
principle is if we were to, uh, if you look at even pathology for a hundred years, we're looking
at microscopic images and we're doing the same things we are, but all, all the tools that are
available to us now with all the technology, would we continue to diagnose and diagnose the disease
the same way we do? I don't think so. So, so what's going to happen is there's a lot of unmet
need when you look at disease, which is present at so many different levels of scale scale,
where it's just from the single cell to D from cell to DNA, to epigenomics, to proteomics, to
even pixel level data, which we're gathering from these MRI scans and, and pathology digitized tissues.
Well, we have an opportunity to train up a unique signature about a patient and now truly understand
how things are not, not only about prediction, what's happening, but really what's currently happening.
And so I think that's where I think you guys are ready to go, which is a completely unmet,
need, uh, and, and, and how we approach precision medicine. So those are my comments,
but, um, uh, great comments already. Thank you. Thanks, uh, Sahir. Yeah. I, I love your analogy of
the black box with people not understanding how a microscope exactly works or how a, uh, another, uh,
assay machine or a sequencing machine or the bioinformatics processes or these other non
AI at their point, they could be revolutionary. And some of them seem older to us now, but we're not
questioning the black box as such, but people, when they think about AI and healthcare seem to fear
the black box, that was, that was a good point. I just want to add before we go to, to Arthur and
welcome back Chris, um, that it seems like we are sort of merging into looking into what happens in
other areas and on the other industries, uh, to have a look at AI from, uh, the angle of other
injuries, the industries, and that actually keeps a very, very good perspective. And so, so thank you
very much to here for bringing that forward, uh, once more, uh, and Arthur and Chris, would you want
to continue with the short fire and, uh, your comments to the subjects? I'd like to continue the
theme and stay on. So here's point. Uh, my name is Arthur. Um, I, um, I've worked in finance for most of
my life. I've worked in technology for the last four years, um, uh, around, um, uh, software for
machine learning engineers. Um, and if, uh, I'd just like to add about the idea, this idea of
explainability in AI and how, um, uh, you know, we, we, we don't understand an MRI, but we trust an
MRI, but we can explain how an MRI works. We can write down a schema and people can understand logically
if they take the time in order to do it. And the difference here is that deep learning is not
necessarily giving you this explainability in the way that we understand explainability is that
there's a causal relationship between what happened as an input and what happened is now, but there
is a black box there. And I think, and I believe that any, um, machine learning, deep learning expert
would agree. I'm not an engineer myself, but I don't think that's a question. And then the, the,
the question comes to us, well, how do we then reconcile ourselves to accept
good predictions by models? And clearly they're not doing everything right. And clearly that,
you know, we're asking, uh, particular models to still look at cancer, particular models to look
at, you know, you know, whatever, whatever, diabetes or look at different types of things. They're,
they're very discreet in what they do, but the explainability is not going to come in the form
that we want the explainability, the one that we're expecting. And we need to somehow grapple with
that. Um, because it is, it is a probability based, um, mathematics that, um, it doesn't have a linear
kind of causality model at this point. So thank you very much.
Thank you, Arthur. And I'm sure that Shane, uh, will have some, uh, some opinions on, uh, on this.
Uh, and Shane, do you just want to comment before we go to Chris?
Um, yeah, I'm with you. I, uh, I know there are entire research organizations and, and theses and
everything working on the explainability aspect, which I'm not familiar with. So I do understand,
you know, there's, there's a huge importance to it. Um, I, I guess the, in, in lieu of having
explainable AI, which, you know, as the parameters of a neural network grow to, to billions, you're
getting to the point of like, how do you explain, you know, the, how the human brain works and what,
we're, we're far from, from understanding that. So as that keeps growing, the target of explaining how
exactly the AI fired to make that classification.
