=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0313y Den- Neuralink Revolution or Tragedy - Electrodes
First recorded: 2021-04-15T05:53:42.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/96873736-156e-4f89-8a36-97d7165d3690
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Something like that, if anything were to be, if there was an example of somebody having a Neuralink interface and getting hacked, everyone would get them ripped out of their heads almost like immediately, right? Like that's just, that's just a fact. No one's going to be okay with getting hacked regularly.
But I honestly think the symbiotic relationship between the human brain and computers is the natural evolution. Rather than going and relying solely on an AI and these sort of black box implementations where we don't understand what's going on behind the curtain, I think being able to connect and sort of control the computer is really the next step.
And I think Neuralink is sort of like the first bridge to get it there. Where it goes from there, who knows? And we're talking about like really futuristic technology in that regard.
But I think, I think it's scary because it's a, it's a new frontier, but I think it's sort of like, it's an inevitability. And we all have to kind of get a grasp of that.
But I think Travis made some really strong points in our thread about it, where this may be like next evolution of, of mankind, right? That put, you know, certain people are going to be, you know, taken, you know, they're going to have advantages when they're able to simply recall any and all information at the drop of a thought, I guess. So those are my thoughts anyway.
Yeah. This is such an exciting topic and scary at the same time.
I have a, I have a question. I'll come back later. Everybody speaks.
That sounds good.
With, I know Richard, you had a chance to speak. So with, do you want to share your thoughts on this?
Yeah.
We'll cover everyone and then we'll circle back.
I have two things to say, just kind of relating back to things I said earlier.
Okay. So going back to Neuralink. So Neuralink, if it can essentially understand how the human brain works, like the behaviors, like which part of the brain is reacting, right?
Like kind of like a CAT scan, you know, like which part of the brain is active in specific functions or specific things you do.
So going back to the consumer market where, you know, we have like targeted ads. Now you have something that is, you have targeted ads towards you and now you have something like essentially knowing which part of your brain is reacting when you see specific something, specific product.
Now you're getting tailored, even better tailored ads, right? And it's just kind of getting you to like that lazy mentality of like kind of just sitting there. That's my, that's my first point.
My second point is going back to like it being in children. To me, in my opinion, that is the death of creativity because now you are now, even when the child is even straying away a little bit, you know exactly why, when, and what, what parts of the academic structure that is not interesting them enough.
And now you're essentially putting them all in line to kind of like even make them into robots, in my opinion. And like both of these connected, this is in, to me, it's, we're getting closer to the matrix, if anything.
And like, I do agree with you, Matt, about like, you know, this being the next step, but at the same time, the next step can also be this, you know, like us kind of just being trapped in this, in this mindset where like everything is being watched and not controlled, but like targeted. That's, that's my views, at least.
I think the term is cyborg, not robot.
So real quick, I think that's based on the assumption that we continue doing things the way that we have been doing things, which is, which is totally valid.
But my, I think there's an equal potential that with a neural link and with understanding of like, look, there are better ways to learn than the sit down and focus, you know, project-based learning, game-based learning.
There's other ways of learning, which are burgeoning, again, project-based and game-based, to go and basically overthrow the, you know, the 150-year-old industrial kind of way of, you know, the way that traditional education is.
So if it was that way, then yes, I could see it being enforced versus there's might be other ways.
There might be better ways.
And I believe, and I know there are better ways.
And I think that a neural link would make it clearer that the other ways of learning are better.
And so not going and continuing in the same way, that, that, sure, to make that one point.
Thanks, Beth.
Right.
Just, just to respond to that real quick, I do agree, but then this also puts the power in the parent's hand.
Now the parent is able to kind of dictate where and what the child is going to be because they, they know how to essentially like use their brain or map out their brain now.
Like that's, that's kind of where I'm coming from, where it's like, where's the free will of the child kind of trying to decide?
Because now from such a young age, the parent is able to control the thought process and manipulate how the child's going to be.
Letitia, real quick with a, with a question.
So how often have we, I know I have thought or said, I can't turn my brain off.
Right.
So, you know, so when it's time to go to bed at night and I'm still thinking about things from the day or things that need to be done.
And what implication does something like Neuralink have, you know, with, with that, the ability to live a holistic, well-balanced life and one that's not over-dominated by the thinking compartments of our brain?
Sorry.
Can I weigh in here, please?
I just wanted to say that as far as Neuralink goes, Neuralink is not able to make decisions for you or interfere with your life in any way.
It's a, it's a chip. It's a, a mathematical solution to something. It cannot interfere with you. It cannot interfere with your thought process. Your thought process is your own.
Um, I disagree with that, actually. Sorry.
Sorry, no, I'm done. I'm done. I'm done. I'm done.
Did you?
Go ahead, Dada. Mika, did you want to chime in? I know we'll go through the office and maybe Dada, you can share your thoughts.
I would, I would love to chime in, but I want to give Dada a chance to, to say, to say why.
Um, so my thinking is that, um, once you put some, obviously, like once you put something, uh, the electrode into your brain, like why do you think that it wouldn't interfere with your thinking thoughts?
Like, it depends on, also, like, because of what the device do, like, if it's only taking in information, um, even if, I mean, even if the metal itself, and also, like, correct me if I'm wrong, um, Abe, I'm pointing you out on the stage.
But, um, like, even if it's a metal, like, why do you think that, like, putting, um, putting an electrode inside your, in, inside your head, um, interacting with your neuron wouldn't change your behavior?
That's something that I don't get in the first place, because, like, metal is also, like, metal is also material chemistry.
And, second thing is that, like, depends on what the device do.
If the device is only taking in information, then, okay, maybe it interacts, maybe it will change your, um, maybe it will change your, uh, structure, brain structure.
Your, also, brain structure is constantly changing, by the way.
Um, also, it will also, it will also change because you put a metal in, because you put an electrode inside your head.
Depends on what the, obviously, it depends on what the material the electrode is.
But, um, one thing that, also, is pretty critical is that, depends on what the device do, if it's only taking in information and analyzing it and showing you, like, what this is doing, then, like, yeah, maybe it will change your, um, maybe it will change your behavior less.
Um, but, if it's also giving it feedback into your neuron, then, like, yeah, definitely it's going to change your behavior.
Um, frankly, I think that, like, um, uh, whatever neurons do it, just, um, reflecting on your behavior, and that's, like, what's, um, what people have to think about, like, um, when you, uh, when you put anything in your head.
That's one thing.
And then, the second thing is that, um, we were talking about, um, uh, AI and human, um, well, um, brain and computer, um, symbiosis.
Um, one thing that we have to think about is that it also change your lifestyle as well.
Um, for example, let's say you have an implant in your head, like, the only way to change it, the only way to debug it, is to go to the hospital and do a brain surgery.
Like, do you, do you really want that lifestyle?
Like, that's just something that we can think about, right?
Like, and the third thing is that in here we make an assumption that the human intelligence is basically how, um, how stimulus our neuron is.
But, like, um, so, like, we make, because of that assumption, we assume that, oh, having this device in our head will make us smarter, or will make us more capable, or get digest information better.
Um, but, um, but, I don't think that, frankly, um, most of these devices study on, uh, patients who are paralyzed.
Um, and, like, I couldn't see a future, like, I couldn't see, like, why are we using it in the normal human being, and, like, um, creating a new human species.
Like, it's, like, it's something that's, like, pretty sci-fi, but, like, at the same time, like, like, we don't really know what intelligence is yet.
Like, um, why would we make the assumption of that, like, stimulating, stimulating our neuron would make us smarter.
Um, and then the last thing is about education.
Um, frankly, uh, we were talking about using these technology, using these brain machine interface technology to improve education.
Um, especially in China, frankly, it already happened in China.
Um, there's a company I used to work for, it's exactly doing that, but it was using non-invasive brain machine, brain machine interface, who, um,
um, analyze, uh, students, uh, uh, attention on certain things, or, like, um, long-term attention, meaning focus.
So, um, yeah, I mean, frankly, I, I, I personally think that, like, these devices already happen, like, uh, that's, like, changing our behavior.
So, like, um, and so far, it seems to have, like, okay results.
I think the more important things that we have to ask is, like, what are these machine learning algorithms that's using these devices are analyzing and, like, outputting, um, and, uh, affecting our behavior?
I think sometimes, uh, uh, uh, uh, company put a machine learning algorithm in certain devices and, and claim that they do certain things, but then, like, does it really do that?
Like, is it really a valid result?
Like, that's, um, debatable.
Um, and, but, um, we're using these to changing our daily behavior, um, which I think that's something that, um, should be, that we should be more alarming about.
So, yeah, I, sorry, sorry, I took over so much time.
I'll pass the mic to you, Micah.
Thank, um, thank you, Dana.
Um, so, I, I, I want to tell you a little bit about myself real quick because this is my, this is what, this topic is what I've devoted my life to since 2012.
Uh, so I know a vast amount of, of, uh, I have a vast amount of knowledge about Neuralink and a lot of other BCI technologies.
Um, if you want to, if you want, you can see that, uh, there's a deep learning group on Facebook that has 147,000 members.
I'm an admin.
A neurophysics group on Facebook, 9,000 members.
I'm an admin.
There's a self-aware networks Neuralace group, which is directly related to Neuralace, NerveGear, Neuralink.
These are all basically referring to the same idea, the next generation brain-computer interface.
Uh, that, that group is, is really old.
It's older than Neuralink.
Um, I'm a, I'm a moderator in Neural Circuits group.
And then on, uh, an admin in the large, uh, Neuralace, uh, subreddit on Reddit.
Um, and in addition, I write software.
If you, if you just look at my bio, I, I brought EEG into VR.
So we, so basically medical imaging technology, I brought it into virtual reality.
Um, and, uh, and, uh, and, and there's, there's more.
But, but, but I, so what I want to share with, with folks is that, um, what I, what I know,
because I, I basically, I study, uh, neuroscience pretty much since, uh, since 2005.
And, uh, since there, one of the latest things that came out was saying that there's a new
hypothesis for short-term memory.
That short-term memory basically, um, so, so let's say that short-term, short-term memory
is something that you need to remember for maybe 10 seconds.
So maybe like a phone number.
So if I say, okay, uh, remember this phone number and then tell it to me, uh, in a little
bit so I can write it down, right?
That's, that's what we're talking about with short-term memory.
But you see, when a neuron, what?
Working memory.
Do you have another place for short-term memory?
Yeah, working memory, exactly.
Yes, yes, yeah.
Um, they refer to the same thing.
Um, there, there's many, so people have outlined many different types of, uh, uh, of memory
in, in terms of, um, you know, but, but I think it just boils down to short-term and
long-term memory.
Like, you can reduce everything, either you're talking about short-term or you're talking about
long-term.
But yeah, working memory is another, another, uh, name.
For, for short-term memory.
Um, and, uh, so the long-term memory involves, you know, uh, what's, what's called LTP or
long-term potentiation and you need an, you need a new protein synthesis and, and a bunch
of other steps in order for long-term memory to happen.
But short-term memory has been a little bit more mysterious.
And a recent, uh, paper came out saying that, well, um, so a single neuron couldn't be
responsible for long-term memory.
And this is an old idea, uh, because, um, a, um, because, uh, the single, if you activate
a single neuron, uh, artificially, the, the activity is going to last, uh, for, uh, I think
it was like 10 milliseconds offhand.
But, but in any case, it's not going to last for 10 seconds.
It's, it's just way too short for that.
Um, so in order for, uh, for neurons to remember something for, um, an activity for more than
the 10 milliseconds, you, what, what, what might need to happen is you would have to have like
a bunch of neurons and, and they need, they need to talk to each other.
So, so one remembers the activity for, for, for 10 milliseconds, the next, the next one
remembers it for 10, 10 milliseconds, and basically they're, if you could, if you could
have, uh, if you could have them talk back and forth, uh, where they, they, um, they're
basically, um, you know, the activity is just happening over and over again, back and
forth, then, then they, then a memory could last for, uh, for, for 10 seconds.
But you need, you need basically what's called a neural circuit, um, uh, like a microcolumn.
Um, and, and this is, um, this is, this is probably exactly what's happening.
So, so, so if this is true, and it probably is true, uh, that means that your short-term
memory is, uh, in neural circuits, that means your thoughts are in neural circuits, in local
microcolumns and little clusters.
And this means that a device like Neuralink, which is designed to, to be able to measure
a single neuron firing, is going to be able to eventually decode your thoughts.
Like, literally, the thoughts in your head.
And, and because, uh, Neuralink is capable of closed-loop therapy, which means not only
can it read, it can write, it can stimulate the brain, it can change the patterns of those
neural firing.
So, that means it could literally edit your thoughts.
So, we are talking about reading and writing to your short-term memory.
Now, this, uh, the, the, the potential for, for misuse, obviously, is, is massive, and that's,
it's a big concern for this group.
But, but the potential for, um, the, the reason that this technology is almost unstoppable
is that the potential for healing, uh, there's so many people with, uh, traumatic, um, uh, brain
injuries, uh, invisible, uh, brain injuries, like post-traumatic stress disorder.
Uh, so many people with, with problems like, uh, depression and, and, uh, and all kinds
of suffering over the entire world.
And so, the, so, the, basically, the point is that the, the, the amount of pain in the
world, um, is going to result in people being willing to pay for this technology to continue
to be developed so that they can have relief from their pain and suffering.
And so, this technology is not something anyone can stop coming.
But, obviously, the concern is that, uh, people don't want to be, um, you know, turned into
slaves, where you have a machine that's basically, uh, telling you, basically instructing your
thoughts, basically giving you your next thoughts.
Can you imagine if you have, like, the little machine, and it's, and it's basically telling
you what to think, and you just think what it tells you to think.
Like, that's the capability here.
Now, that's the downside.
The, the upside is, um, not only will we be able to help people, but you could do things
like, when you write to the brain, you could experience augmented reality and virtual reality
experiences through direct brain stimulation.
And you could back up what you're seeing and hearing, uh, as, as pictures and videos that
are downloaded to your computer and your phone so you can share them.
Um, if you, uh, if a crime has been committed against you, uh, potentially the court could get
a, um, uh, what's it called?
A, uh, a warrant to search, uh, yeah, some sort of warrant to search the, the offender's
brain to see if, if there's proof that they actually committed that, that crime against
you.
So there's a lot of things to think about.
But, uh, one thing that, that, um, is not going to happen is this technology is not going
to be stopped because, because the, the people need relief from, from their pain.
Like, editing your thoughts, Jesus Christ, oh my gosh.
Wait, are we also going to be able to be like, like Neo and wake up and like, I know Kung
Fu?
I'm kind of joking, but serious.
Uh, so this is, right now we're talking about editing short-term memory, um, with, with
Neuralink.
Um, so learning Kung Fu, I guess, might involve, uh, long-term memory and, and that might take
up more research and, and, uh, I, I don't, uh, that's another thing.
Can I, can I ask you a quick question, uh, Mika?
Um, you, you outlined a very, uh, you know, measured, um, statement about the pros and cons
regarding this, but can I ask your personal opinion about what would be the best path forward?
Like, what are your suggestions based on your experience?
So we're talking about a technology that is, um, you need to compare it to, uh, owning,
you need to compare it to basically, um, like brain surgery.
If, if you have a Neuralink device, you're, you should have at least the knowledge of,
of a neurosurgeon before using it because that is the level of, of how much you could, you
could potentially, you know, screw with your own mind if, if, if you don't know what you're
doing.
Um, and, uh, so basically, I mean, I, what I see is, is a future is that basically, you
know, the entire world will, will become neuroscientists.
Like at people, by the time people are in high school, they'll be, they'll know all about
neuroscience because, because you'd have to in this future world, there will never be a
time in history after this when people are just okay with, uh, with this technology because
the risks never go away.
That, I mean, imagine someone just, all it takes is like one person to start turning, to
secretly turn another person into it, into like a slave or a clone of themselves.
And then another person and then another person and like secretly just build like an
army of, like, of slaves that take over the world little by little.
I mean, that is always going to be a risk for the rest of, of, of time.
May I ask a question, Michael?
Yeah, go ahead.
So what happens?
How do we, how do we detect defects, you know?
And what happens, I mean, so with our iPhone, so we're all in the Apple platform, right?
I mean, I'm sure we've all found ourselves in the, you know, the Apple store because, you
know, our battery was dying too quickly or for some reason.
So, so with something like this, how do we know if it's broken and then how is it fixed?
And what are the implications?
You know, might it bring on early onset dementia?
Have you studied any of those, um, implications or potential implications?
Uh, so, so what, what, um, my, I, I, I, I studied these topics.
Uh, my, uh, what I, what I'm thinking at the moment is that, uh, uh, dementia, Alzheimer's,
Parkinson's, that, that they're, um, uh, in, in these diseases, you're seeing basically,
um, a, uh, new research basically, uh, from, from 2020 and 21 is, is saying that, uh, there
is a problem with new protein synthesis in both Parkinson's disease and in Alzheimer's.
And if you give people, uh, chemicals, if you give animals chemicals that, um, improve new
protein synthesis, then their memory and their, and their, and their functions, uh, improve.
But, um, but, but what that, what that could point to is that, uh, basically, I mean, I mean,
but it boils down to, it looks like, uh, those diseases might be caused by sugar, but more
than anything else, the people eating sugar.
Um, but I don't think that, so to answer your specific question, I don't think that, uh,
Neuralink, uh, as a device would be a cause of Alzheimer's or Parkinson's.
That, that's my, that's my short answer.
I'm sure the sugar industry would love to hear that.
I was just going to point out.
And what about the defect?
Oh, I'm sorry, the defects.
Like, how do you know when something's gone awry and then what happens?
So, uh, in terms of like, uh, so, okay, so there's, there's, uh, I think there's two,
I think there's, uh, really two questions.
You, you, you have kind of one good question, but I think there's really two, two good questions
in there that I kind of want to address.
So one is, um, the, uh, in terms of like ethics, in terms of the laws, the ethical laws that
need to be, uh, uh, applied here.
I mean, it comes, it comes down to like, this is a, this is like, you know, it's like owning
a gun sort of, it's like owning, but it's like also like being like, I mentioned like being
a surgeon, like you'd have to have the knowledge of what you're doing and, uh, you, what you
have with a Neuralink device is, uh, a very, is potentially dangerous in terms of like,
you know, even if, even if no one has given you malicious software, if there's a bug in
the software, uh, there, there's potentially very serious problems that, that could happen.
Um, and so there needs to be, of course, and so in terms of safeguards, software safeguards,
um, there would have to be, um, you know, a lot of, uh, there'd have to be a higher standard
of, of bug testing before software goes into something that you put in a human being.
Um, there would have to be, um, you know, like, uh, the, um, you know, you need to be able
to verify that the software is a hundred percent, uh, what, uh, you know, what it, what it is.
I mean, that you'd have to, you, I don't think that like right now, like the current, the current
thing is that, you know, there's, there's a Bluetooth connection to a phone and that's just
ripe for hacking, right?
Because there's a million ways to hack Bluetooth and there's a million ways to hack your Android
phone, uh, that's too risky for, to put into a human being.
But, um, uh, I think that, you know, so the devices need to be more secure.
Um, and then, um, yeah, so it just has to be regarded, uh, correctly.
It has to be understood that this is a, um, super, this is a potentially dangerous technology
that has enormous potential therapeutic and medical benefits.
So, um, you know, it's like doctors can, you know, for example,
doctors can prescribe extremely dangerous drugs, uh, in certain conditions, for, for example.
And doctors can perform extremely dangerous surgeries, but not everyone can and, and not,
uh, uh, and, and then, so those, this is the kind of thinking that needs to be done about
this, um, technology before it, before it goes out more widely into society.
I mean, it sounds like you could potentially turn someone into a human robot, like the way
you described the, you know, it's, it's, it's both input and output that could be, um, and
right now I know your link only works one, one direction, but, um, yeah, like the fact
that you described how you're working memory, like your, your, uh, consciousness, your, what
you think you're thinking, uh, and that you have free will with could potentially be intercepted
in, uh, by, by an outside, um, force.
And that's kind of scary.
Yeah.
Well, um, it's not that we want to stop that from happening completely.
Like you may want to, you may, you may want to enjoy virtual reality via, via direct brain
stimulation.
You may want to enjoy augmented reality via direct brain stimulation.
So you, so you could walk down the street and you could interface with your memories,
uh, basically as, you know, uh, like virtual reality programs that you can see in here.
And, and, and maybe the, the, the benefit to that will be profound and enormous.
Um, you just, um, what people are going to be worried about, of course, is, is that, you
know, that a program could glitch and cause, uh, harm if, if, if there's a program error and,
and people will be worried about, um, uh, of course, malicious, malicious programs.
But, but the, um, the same sorts of, there is a, there's an existing sort of legal structure
for, um, you know, for, for, for dealing with, um, uh, criminal activity, right?
And, and so what, what needs to happen is, is people would need to think about, um, common
sense, uh, laws for, for, for, um, and for, for, for, for making this technology something
that's safe and something that is, um, whether, whether, I'll pause right there because I,
I'm, yeah.
This is great.
Abe, do you want to share your thoughts?
I know you unmuted earlier.
Um, yeah.
Well, first of all, I just, uh, to introduce myself in 2002 and 2007.
Yeah.
I did an implantable, uh, intracortical.
Abe, Abe, I'm not sure if, uh, could you try that again, Abe?
Sorry, this is probably better.
Um, briefly introducing myself.
I worked on a project called BrainGate, which was, like, the precursor to the Neuralink.
So it was an implantable, uh, intracortical motor neural prosthetic device.
Uh, so we, we, we kind of developed that between, like, 2002 and 2007 around.
And we actually, it was originally a monkey, uh, BCI that we allowed, enabled monkeys to
control computers directly using thought, um, and then transferred it to human clinical
trials.
So we successfully enabled people with, like, spinal cord injury and quadriplegia to control
computers and robotic arms and stuff like that.
Um, so it was actually, the, basically, Neuralink is actually just replicating what we did, uh,
and what other people have done since then.
And they're, the main, major, major difference, which is very significant, is that they're
making it as, like, a commercial project, like, that is going to be similar to, like,
a LASIK eye surgery type of implant, whereas ours was, like, uh, more similar to, like,
a monkey neuroscience research laboratory equipment with, like, a cart with, like, all these big
machines that do decoding and signal processing, um, not very portable at all.
And, uh, Neuralink is doing all of that basically on a little chip inside your head, which is very
impressive.
Um, and, uh, but yeah, I was just going to comment on one thing about the ethical guidelines.
You know, if you're talking about a computer, I think the big difference is the fact that,
you know, um, if you're going to do, like, a neural augmentation type device and it's implanted,
um, you don't, you no longer have the option of, uh, not using it, for example.
So, like, um, you know, that might be the best ethical type of thing, like an on-off, a physical
on-off switch, which I'm very, very unlikely, once they, once they have you, they tend not
to want to let that go.
But, for example, with an iPhone or a computer, you can just turn it off and just leave it
at home or something.
And with Neuralink, you will not be able to do that.
And I think that's where you really need to have ethical guidelines, where, where it's
not just like Facebook or Gmail that reads all of your direct messages and personal documents
and things like that.
There, they'll have to be some kind of, a little bit more stringent.
I mean, I, I, I shouldn't say there won't have to be, I'll say in an ideal world, there
would be more stringent ethical and privacy guidelines in the more, in most likelihood, like there
just won't be, and we're just going to have to, you know, whatever.
And like, like the, the, the extreme cases that, like what Micah was saying, when there
is like a subpoena or a criminal investigation, they're just going to be able to, you know,
it's a, it's going to be a U.S. company.
The government will just be able to subpoena whatever they want.
Um, I also just wanted to differentiate between the kind of short-term and medium-term prospects
versus like longer-term.
So like anything about like thoughts and decoding thoughts and stuff like that, that's like
more like medium to long-term and the short-term is going to be basically moving a cursor on
the screen, maybe typing, typing things out, very rudimentary typing and things like that.
Um, and it's just like important to know, like that, that is where they're at now and
probably will go next to like maybe auditory, uh, auditory and neural prostheses or visual
prostheses and things like that.
And maybe some treatments of like some motor, motor disease, like Parkinson's or, uh, you
know, those kinds of things.
And then, yeah, I think it is definitely true that there will be things related to thoughts
and memory.
And that will probably come in like the 10 to 15 year time horizon or maybe, maybe even
like seven to 10 year, but those aren't coming like right around the corner.
And I don't know, I can, I can speak to like actual, to have those things work in the
motor neuroscience and decoding from populations of neurons in the motor cortex, um, which is
pretty, it's pretty interesting stuff.
But, um, uh, yeah, so there's a, you touched on some really interesting, uh, areas and
I'd love to dive into one, one, um, in particular was around like, like the regulation, like the
way I, um, you know, like from hearing Elon Musk talk about this, um, you know, let me use
the analogy of like, let's say we, uh, alien space invasion or like the movie independence
day, if we knew that there was going to be like this superior species that was going to invade
earth or visit planet earth.
And we had to like get advanced warning of it 10, 20, 30 years in advance.
Um, you know, we would probably rush to prepare for that, um, situation maybe.
And my guess is that he, he's viewing AI as essentially that, uh, and that regulation seems
to be always a thing that comes after something catastrophic happens and, uh, and the damage
is done.
And then we pursue regulation and that, uh, idea of pursuing regulation after the innovation,
um, as, um, you know, played itself out a bit, uh, to see it's the edges of where it might
want to, we might want to, uh, safeguard, um, the tech, this new tech, that process of regulation
being a laggard is a bad one.
So essentially, uh, the only way to combat this invasion of AI is, uh, us also kind of
rushing on the speeding train, um, uh, towards, uh, becoming a cyborg.
And, and that's essentially, uh, you know, the only thing that he sees is a path forward.
And I, I, I, my, that's kind of what I'm hearing.
I don't know.
I'd love to hear your thoughts and see if that's what you're essentially saying as well.
Can I add, can I add something?
I don't want to reply.
Just to answer Travis's question first.
Um, so I, I think Travis, I think, well, I think the first thing I would respond to
that is like, there's a lot of hype around AI and different things like that.
And, you know, aliens, invasion, like things like this, like, I don't know, I think it's
important to just look at like what, what we're talking about is like decoding the, let's
say motor intention from the, from the brain and whether you're using AI or you're using
like, um, different types of like signal processing or real time, there, there are all kinds
of algorithms and different control system types of decoding, um, mathematical, um, ways
of doing that.
Uh, it's not just AI and these, uh, um, I think it's important to just like, just kind of like
look at all these different aspects of like neural interfaces.
Um, I, I, I guess, um, sorry, so yeah, so I was, um, personally, I think regarding like
the ethical guidelines, I, like, I think it's also important to differentiate this.
Like just because you're doing a neural interface doesn't, it's not that different.
I think that's one thing I really agree with what, when Elon Musk talks about this and he
says that, you know, this is like, we have a neural interface right now.
You know, we have, we have a keyboard, we have a phone, we have a mobile phone with direct
access to the internet with like hundreds of gigs of memory and, and pictures and facial
identification and Wikipedia and email that that's a neural interface.
You know, you're using your thumbs and you're connecting it to a mega database of like real
time AI and all kinds of like single processing and everything at your fingertips.
It's just a very slow bandwidth between your thoughts and then the computer systems that
are connected to the internet that can pretty much connect to any other computer system all
around the world faster than your eyes can register it in the microsecond millisecond range.
So we, we already were, I'm talking to you, right, with a neural interface that is sending
my voice to your ears.
It's not really neural direct neural interface, but like, so it's just a very slow bandwidth.
And I think my point there is the fact that we don't need to wait till we have a neural
interface to have better ethical guidelines.
And we, in my opinion, like, why don't we start with the current interface, which is
like using a computer, like right now we're using this app and we're using an iPhone and
we don't have any control over the privacy or like ethical guidelines on those systems.
Why don't we just try to get those regulatory?
Because in my opinion, I'm saying that we should do that.
I don't have a lot of faith in, in the, in the companies and in the, in the government
that they're going to do that.
And then the issue that I I'm concerned about is like, now when you have it implanted, now
you don't have the chance to turn it off, you know, it's just implanted.
And now they, they just have you, you know, in your own brain.
And it's kind of like, we should, in my opinion, that should be like a, a big flag or a milestone
where it's like, let's put the brakes on it now, but we should also work backwards into
Facebook, into Gmail and things like that.
And may I, may I respond to Abe's, uh, to Abe?
Sure.
Okay.
So, um, so Abe's, Abe's work, uh, is extremely, extremely legit.
Like what Abe has done in terms of intracortical implants, uh, ECOG.
And, um, I don't know if you're also working with stereo EEG or DBS, uh, Abe.
We, my, it was an intracortical, the one, it was not ECOG.
It's a intracortical, like ECOG is on the surface of the, of the brain.
And, uh, intracortical is the actual implanted with, like, listening to the actual neurons
firing and firing rates of individual, populations of individual neurons.
And just by the way, just so people know it, it was a nature paper.
I was a co-author on a nature paper.
And my claim to fame is that I was actually on the cover of Nature in, uh, July of 2013.
What, what was the name of the paper so we can all look it up?
And, and, um, were, were you, were, were you working with DBS?
I think my divorce has just been signed up there now.
Right.
Were you working with DBS?
And also, can you say the name of the nature, the nature paper?
Uh, we can all look it up.
Um, if you just go to nature.com and you go to like, uh, or yeah, it's neural, um, a neural
prosthetic.
And you can, it's under Hochberg.
If you look that up, H-O-C-H-B-E-R-G.
H-O-C-H-B-E-R-G?
H-O-C-H-B-E-R-G.
And just look up neural, uh, neural prosthetic.
Okay.
H-O-C-H.
Was it called neural ensemble control of prosthetic devices?
Yeah.
Neural, yeah.
It's just like Google neuronal, uh, yeah.
Neuronal prosthetic.
It'll, it'll come up.
H-O-C-H-B-E-R-G.
Was it a 2006 paper?
That's the 2006.
Yeah.
There was another one in 2002, which was the monkey, uh, the monkey controlling the computer.
And then in 2006, it was the human controlling.
And, um, yeah, you can look up that whole, that whole, um, edition of nature in July 13th,
2006 has a whole set of articles and editorials.
This was an actual published article.
And then there was like editorials and other documents about neural prosthesis.
It's pretty interesting.
Um, but yeah, we didn't, I did work with.
DBS in the sense that like our preliminary test we did, uh, before we had the FDA IDE clinical
approval to do the device testing in, in, in our own trial, we actually piggybacked on
a, uh, implanting a DBS.
There's a, there's a technique where in order to target the exact location of the DBS electrodes,
you can use, uh, electrodes that they normally put in deep in the brain to find the exact spot
where you don't want the DBS implanted.
So we stopped those electrodes on the surface of the brain.
Um, it's made by a company called Alpha Omega as an Israeli, uh, company, and we actually
modified their system to do a real time, uh, decoding and control allowing patients in the
OR while they had their brain open for the DBS implantation.
We got the patient's consent and IRB approval to do a closed loop real time system in the
OR.
So I was working with patients in, in the OR getting a DBS implant.
Um, so, but I, we didn't work on DBS, but we used that, uh, OR, uh, time.
So, so how, may I, um, how, how close, how close were you able to get to measuring like
single neuron spikes?
Um, and I ask that because I guess one of the major differences that, um, that, that, that
people have been saying about Neuralink is that when you measure single neuron spikes,
you're, you're talking about a new, like a new order of magnitude of, of, of, of resolution
potentially for, for medical imaging that just doesn't exist in, in many other, uh, devices,
in any other device.
I mean, that, that's the whole technology, that's what we did.
I mean, that's, it was, this was like, it's pretty standard in monkeys up back until like
the mid nineties or early nineties.
Um, we were doing it in humans in 2000, I think four or five, and it was basically spikes,
spike trains.
So we're, we're recording from, uh, between, you know, five to a couple hundred neurons
in parallel at the same time, and you're getting the full spike trains with fine timing, the
exact, you know, microsecond spike, uh, spike timing.
So, okay.
So you're talking about like, like electrode rays that were implanted in, in monkeys, for
example.
In humans.
In humans.
We had electrode rays in human motor cortex and decoding the, the spiking activity of
populations of neurons in real time.
Yep.
Okay.
And so do, do you feel that, that, uh, that we're getting anything new in terms of, uh,
the, the, the resolution or capabilities with Neuralink?
Um, I just, I'm interested to hear what your thoughts on that.
Oh, definitely.
Definitely.
I mean, their technology is, I mean, it's, it's generations ahead of what we did.
I think in terms of their, I think I, from what I gather, their first experiment is, is
pretty, they're setting a very low threshold and, and very easy thing to succeed because
it's been done, it was done in 2004.
Okay.
Like this is, this was, this is not a complicated thing in terms of the technology, in terms of
replicating it, because all they're doing is doing like a kind of control of an iPhone
or a computer.
And, um, their technology is way more sophisticated.
And my understanding is there's like thousands, I believe in, in their current, uh, version
one is going to be like a thousand plus, uh, real time decoding.
Yeah.
I think, I think the current number is over 3000, but the, but the device is potentially
capable of, of, over, over more, more than 10,000.
Yeah.
And ours was maximum.
It's called the Utah array.
That's like the classic array.
That name is called the Utah array.
It's a hundred, uh, a neuron, um, sorry, a hundred electrodes on a silicon.
It's like a, um, it's actually like a rigid stable.
96.
It's a hundred, uh, electrodes on a silicon wafer.
So there's like a 10 by 10 array and it's just a, about four millimeters deep in the
cortex.
And you just tap it right onto the surface of the cortex.
And just the tips of them as are coated in metal that you can, so that has like a ability
to record the electrical activity.
Very, it's a very tiny electrode, um, that can just pick up just the field around the tip,
which is basically near the neurons of those electrodes.
But, but when you stick a Utah array into a human brain, I mean, it looks like a, it
has, it looks like a, like a square with a bunch of spikes.
Are we, we're puncturing a lot of blood vessels, right?
It's causing a lot of damage and then scarring happens and then it stops working.
Is that right?
Um, it lasted, I think the maximum was like a couple of years and, uh, there, there's
not a lot of scarring.
I mean, there, there's a tiny amount of, uh, uh, you know, it takes, I think like a week
or two to heal after the brain surgery, which is fairly common.
And, uh, it was just like the first time you plug it in, it starts working.
Um, yeah, but I definitely, it's the, the neural link is less invasive because they
actually use these tiny wires and they just thread it in very precisely.
This, this thing is like the more, more invasive, but, um, you, you just avoid any major
capillaries and arteries.
Um, so were, were you, were you able to send, uh, stimulus stimulation, uh, and do
closed through closed loop therapies?
We weren't doing simulation, but you can, the neural, in fact, the Utah array was originally
developed to do a cortical stimulation in the visual cortex and they did it and they, you
get like phosphine and things like that.
It didn't, uh, but you can stimulate with the Utah array.
Uh, we didn't, in our system, we only recorded from the primary motor cortex.
Can, I mean, can you be very specific about which, which pin the, the simulation is coming
from in Utah, right?
Or is it just like the whole thing at once?
All, all of the, any of them, you can just send current into any of them.
It's just, it's just, it could be, it's just an electrode so you can record or stimulate.
Very, very cool.
So, um, one of the, one of the things, I'm getting maybe very specific.
I, I am looking at seeing like there's some attrition.
So like maybe if you want to get more general, I don't know if people are, I know if people
are interested in this level of detail.
I mean, I, I like talking about it, but.
I just have a question.
Why don't you, Abyss, why don't you go ahead?
Sure.
By any chance.
I know.
Oh, okay.
I was in the Donahue lab, Donahue lab at Brown.
And then we, and that was, they were the ones who were, I mean, Donahue was a quite amazing,
prominent, uh, motor neuroscience researcher from back in like the eighties and seventies.
Um, and he was basically doing monkey, you know, motor science, motor neuroscience research
for a long time.
And, uh, um, they, yeah, that's where they did the initial, um, monkey closed loop intracortical,
uh, the system.
And then he started a company called cyber kinetics.
So I joined that company.
I was kind of like the first employee, uh, hired.
And then we merged with a company in Utah that developed Utah array and also the amplifiers
and decoding systems.
And they, they still exist and sell those systems for, uh, neuros neuroscientist research
as well as like clinical epilepsy research and things like that.
Um, yeah, I know I'm, I'm, I think like some of the labs that I participated in actually
used the Utah array.
Um, there are some electrode failures, uh, and also like, I think Mike also pointed out
that there was also a risk of, uh, edema when, when you're puncturing, uh, blood vessel, but
I think like they're kind of widely used for, uh, brain, computer and face.
Yeah.
A lot of people have used them now and it's been widely replicated.
In fact, there are people who have used like they implant multiple, uh, Utah arrays in different
parts of the brain and then they decode, uh, they, they use it for like, um, they have demonstrated
it to be used for hand and arm robotic prosthesis.
So someone who loses their arm, like a veteran, uh, had their arm, uh, you know, amputated, uh,
and then they put a very highly dexterous robotic arm.
You can see these demos like on YouTube and they decode the, um, they don't usually use
the brain computer interface for those, but they have demonstrated the ability to use a
brain interface to control the fingers and hands of a, of a, of a complete robot and like
hand and arm with like 25, 27 degrees of freedom.
So I, you know, you guys are having like really interesting conversation.
I just want to remind you though, there's a lot of folks that don't have, uh, I guess
some of the technical details that you guys are referencing.
Could you perhaps just for everyone in the audience, can I explain in layman's term, what
is the Utah array and how they kind of, I get the sense that it's different from what
the Neuralink is using.
Could a, maybe you could maybe explain that a little bit more.
We'd love to hear, understand that.
Um, here, I'll PTR real quick.
Uh, yeah, um, yeah, basically, uh, Utah array is like a, it's kind of, you can think of
it as a traditional, um, intracortical electrode, like you can see it.
So, so PTR means, uh, when, once Abe uploads his picture, you're going to pull down the screen
to refresh it, to see his new picture.
Uh, yeah, basically the Utah array, and this is actually from the, um, nature paper.
Um, so yeah, so, yeah, so, um, that's what it looks like.
It's basically a, um, well, just one more second, sorry, it's uploading, I guess.
Yeah, it's, it's basically, you can PTR now and then you'll see the Utah array.
It's basically like, you can think of it, I mean, for lack of a better term, a bed of
nails, so to speak.
Like, it's basically a silicon wafer, four millimeters by four millimeters and one millimeter
in, in height.
And then it's etched out.
So there are a hundred electrodes, 10 by 10 array.
And I don't know if people are familiar with like semiconductor etching, but it's like
a MEMS device.
So it's kind of like a silicon wafer, like a computer chip.
And then it's basically every electrode is just like a millimeter.
Sorry, did I see?
Um, yeah, basically it's four millimeter by four millimeter in the square.
And then the electrodes are one millimeter in height.
So the, the electrode goes one millimeter deep into the, into the cortex, which is just
the, the act, the correct and required depth to reach the neurons.
And I, if anyone's more familiar than I am with motor neuroscience, but there's a specific
neuronal cells in the, in the motor cortex and the cell, the actual, um, cell body is
right around that, that layer.
So we're actually recording from the ideal depth in that, using that system.
And it, it basically, it's very different from neural link in the sense that it's a rigid,
it's like one flat surface that the electrode tips are all at the same depth.
And it's, it's just what happens to like work pretty well.
Um, and, but you don't have any variability.
You can't just like place the electrodes in particular spots.
So you just kind of like, um, put it, put it, put it there and then it, it, it worked in
all the patients.
So that was, that was good.
Um, but, uh, it's, you can think of it as a rudimentary system that was more developed
for monkey, uh, neuroscience research.
Okay.
Maybe I can create a more, I can.
Sorry.
Just wanted to ask you, how many, how, how many neurons, uh, can this one chip reach
at this moment?
What's the maximum amount of neurons, uh, that these chips can read?
Um, I, in, okay, in theory, I, I would, I, I mean, in theory, every electrode can actually
record from more than one neuron because you have an electrode tip and then there can be
multiple neurons around the electrode.
And then you basically see different, uh, different, um, like every electrode, every,
every neuron has like a different, different pattern of the action potential.
So you can actually see multiple neurons around the tip of an electrode.
So in theory, you can have like 200 to 300 neurons, but in practice, it would typically
range due to like possible scarring or possible, you know, not proximity to a neuron or something
like that, or just a broken electrode that, which can happen is unlikely.
But back when we did it in the first, first, first times, which were like 2004, 2005, that
is important to note.
I'm talking about like some pretty old thing that like 15 years ago.
Um, but back in those times, it was like probably more like between 20 to like a hundred.
So that was great.
And what is it currently right now?
Do you know, like, uh, with the current amount, like are we, it should be around 150, I would,
I would probably estimate.
Oh, we haven't even reached, we haven't reached a thousand yet.
Well, no, the neural link will, so the neural link will be different in the, in the neural
link.
They're actually going to be inserting wires, like a tiny filament wires and targeting.
Um, everyone will be implanted by a robot that's targeting specific neurons and they can implant
like a couple thousand, probably 3000, um, into the, into the specific area in the brain
individually.
And then they're, I think they can actually record from multiple neurons for each wider.
You can actually record multiple, uh, neuronal, like recording sites and stimulate.
So it's like, it's, it's like orders of magnitude, more neurons, and you're able to place them
precisely.
So the Utah Ray was like, like I said, like a flat sheet of like a hundred recording electrodes
and you get whatever you get when you implant it.
Whereas the neural link is like precisely implanting 3000 individually.
So to clarify, I think like the best metaphor that actually worked for me when I was, when
I was, um, you know, working, at least like, you know, volunteering in some of the labs
is that it's like dropping a mic in, in the middle of the stadium.
So what these electrodes are doing is kind of like listening into different neurons talking,
but there are, uh, like, I guess, like one of the novelties, novelties of, uh, neural link
is that they're able to do, uh, spike sorting or a mechanism that's actually differentiates
like, which neuron is firing at which location, then, um, you can, you can essentially decode
the neural information as to like, which neuron is like firing at what rate.
So, um, it's like, uh, like I said, to, to, to go back to my analogy of dropping a mic in
the middle of a stadium, it's like, uh, um, you're trying to discern which, which person
is talking based on their voices, but the only instrument that you have is the mic.
So what these electrodes are doing, even though they're not recording it for a single neuron,
but due to, uh, different clustering tech or like by applying different clustering techniques,
you can actually, uh, decode which, how many neurons you have in the, in the, in the constellation
where they, these electrodes are implanted.
Well, you get a lot of information actually, because we were in a specific area designated for
like hand and arm movement of the brain, uh, of the, like directly in the primary motor
cortex of the brain that controls the hand and arm.
And it's, it's like the last part of the motor system that right before it get the signal
gets sent down the spinal cord, um, to the, to the actual hand in the arm.
So it's actually like very rich information.
And even if you just have like five to 10 neurons, you can actually decode with relatively
high precision, the exact either location or velocity of the hand in space.
And that was, you know, so it's, it's surprisingly how precise, it's surprising how precise and
rich the information, even from a relatively low number of neurons.
And, and, uh, once you get more information and more neurons, you, you, you just, you don't
need it.
It's, it's, yeah, the amount of encoding and the, yeah, it's quite impressive in the brain.
And yeah, I mean, if we want to kind of generalize this more, uh, for, yeah, I think
we've gotten a little bit, um, too in depth on these specific questions maybe, but maybe if
anyone has other general questions or topics to discuss, yeah.
Yeah.
Just, uh, Elon, when he first, uh, when he first presented, uh, Neuralink, they, they referenced,
uh, this, an application, uh, that, uh, you know, I think either was FDA approved or had
gone through that process.
I'm starting to wonder whether he was referencing your work, Gabe, or is there a number of, uh,
No, no, he was talking about our, our project.
He talked, he named it by name at the first present.
Elon Musk had done a few presentations and the first time he's, he'd actually talked about
brain gate and all that.
The second or third time he, I think he, he started to degrade the description and start
calling it like a, an archaic system, an ancient archaic system that did, but I mean, in
reality, it's, it's literally, they're, they're basically replicating exactly the experiment
that we did.
And I think that was done on purpose because of the FDA it's in FDA world, um, things are
very slow and they like to see proof and, and they like to see precedent and things like
that.
So I think they're probably modeling it after our system for that reason that we did a
successful IDE.
This is, this is awesome.
Cause this is, this is where I'd like to probably take the conversation a little bit,
but we were just talking about this earlier today, uh, on a group chat and how like Neuralink
isn't, uh, is more of an innovation on a prior invention and that he had referenced this thing
earlier.
And then as soon as you started talking, I was like, could it be him?
Could he be the, could this be the original thing that he was referencing?
And so this is crazy, uh, that we have you're on stage.
Okay.
Yeah.
And sorry, I wasn't, I wasn't planning to, to, I didn't know if this room existed, um,
and I've been having like a really tiring, uh, week and day.
So I'm sorry.
I'm a little tired also.
That's all good.
No, this was, this was exciting.
It's exhilarating to have what is essentially like, uh, uh, a key person in the founding
team of the thing that really, I think, uh, from, from the perspective of an innovator, from
the perspective of what Elon, I think it was the work you guys did and that the FDA component
of it, that you had advanced it so far along on the regulation side that caught his attention
that there, this was a promising solution.
And, and, and so it's really incredible, uh, you know, uh, the kind of influence that you've
had in what is potentially the future of computing.
And we have you here on stage, you referenced, um, uh, uh, you know, the commercialization
aspect of what he's doing.
Maybe you can touch on a little bit about, uh, you know, has, has the prior work, has there
been prior attempts to commercialize, um, you know, the history behind this, uh, and, and,
uh, you know, what is it that he's doing, uh, uh, what right as it relates to the commercialization
of this stuff, it'd be really curious.
And then also just your timelines, you kind of touched on, you know, two to three years,
uh, maybe typing then auditory, uh, seven to 10 years.
You said maybe, uh, you know, that thing that Mika touched on, uh, the, uh, the working
memory being, uh, edited or that sort of potential.
Could you maybe share some of that as well?
A little more of your history and around, you know, prior to Neuralink and what you think
they're doing, uh, right in terms of commercialization and then your timelines.
Can I, Travis, can I add something?
Well, can I, may I add something?
Yeah, go ahead.
Um, so, so what I wanted to say is, is, um, is Abe is an amazing guest to have, but Neuralink
builds on, I think, a hundred years of neuroscience.
I, I, I, you know, like what Neuralink builds on not just Abe's work, but also, um, you know,
neural, the work on neural dust and, and optogenetics.
And, uh, it's, it, I, I believe it represents a true successor to, to EEG and ECOG and DBS.
Uh, it, there's, there's tons more.
It's like, it is the next frontier of a hundred years of neuroscience.
I, it's, yeah, Abe's work is, is, is really a big part of that, but there's so much more.
And also, I had, like, it's not my word.
I, I was like, uh, employee and I was just out of college at that company.
So, I was, the, it was the Donahue lab in Hochberg, Dr. Professor Hochberg, uh, and this
other guy, Michael, um, Misha Saruja was actually kind of like the, the star guy who did the,
he, his PhD thesis was the monkey, the closed loop monkey, um, intracortical monkey, um, you
know, motor, like basically a neural prosthetic in monkeys.
They, they, they got, that was kind of like the major, the major milestone in around 2001,
2002.
And, um, yeah, those guys kind of made it all happen.
I, I, I kind of, I'm good at just getting things done.
So, I kind of joined and I was coming from a computer engineering background, but, um, so,
uh, yeah, but that's, I'm glad you, right.
No, I'm glad you referenced that.
Thank you, Mika.
And if you, like, you, you're part of that larger team and the larger, uh, movement that's
been going on for some time.
So, I'm glad, uh, you referenced that.
I, I do love to hear your, um, you know, like, has there been other attempts to commercialize
and what are these guys doing right and what do you think is going to happen in the next
two, three years?
I mean, I think the big thing about, you know, first of all, yeah, and that's absolutely correct.
I mean, the one thing is that it is an intracortical neural prosthetic systems of that type
with populations of neurons being decoded in real time.
Uh, you know, EEG, it's just a little bit different technology as well as ECOG.
Uh, I mean, of course, all of neuroscience is, is necessary and, like, it was just a massive
field that goes back 100, 100, 200 years.
Um, so, uh, yeah, so, I mean, I agree.
It's, it's all, it's all part of the same, uh, development there.
As far as, like, the commercialization, I think it's important to note, yeah, like, this
is a huge, the Neuralink, if they pull it off, which definitely hasn't happened yet, you
know, like, they have to have human, you know, subjects and, and have people controlling the
computers.
I don't, I have no doubt that they're going to do it, but if they, if they're able to
do that, hard to describe how, how big, I mean, it's kind of, like, similar to the scale
of, like, going to space, like, creating a commercial space program, the first in human
history, right, where before that it was either the U.S. government or the Russian, the Soviet
Union or China doing that, and then it was, like, a commercial company sending satellites
to space or going to the International Space Station or sending a manned mission to Mars,
which is probably going to happen also.
So it's, like, I think it's along those lines, it's, it's a pretty huge development because
commercializing something of this type and mass producing it, if they actually end up doing
that, which is what they plan to do, it's, that's, it's just, it's not an easy thing.
It's, technologically, it's not, it's not complicated.
Like, this technology has existed.
We, it, 100%, in fact, it existed before 2003 or 4 when we did it.
It was not new technology even then.
It's a little bit complicated to take, you know, neuroscience technology, electrical engineering
technology, clinical neurosurgery types of things and put them together, but it's not,
none of those things were new, and they're definitely not new now, but putting them together and
making them commercial and using, like, a robotic implant and mass producing it, that's, that's
very new, and I don't think anyone has ever done a neural, you know, a neural interface,
and I think the coolest part is going to be when they go into an augmentative type of
approach going, instead of just, like, helping someone with spinal cord injury or ALS to regain,
you know, limb movement or control a robotic arm or control a computer or an iPhone, if they
start going into augmentative, that's even a bigger thing.
But I guess to answer your question, I mean, there have been a lot of commercial projects,
most of them are, like, on a much smaller scale.
I can't think of anything, I mean, Micah, maybe you do know something, but, like, on this,
on this scale, I mean, it's, the one thing that, for me, in my, I mean, this is not going to
sound, it's going to sound like in a different realm, but in my opinion, the most similar
thing that's happening now is Control Labs, CTRL Labs, which is an EMG decoding device,
that decodes hand motion, and you just, it's a wearable EMG system, and it was just acquired
by Facebook for, I think, over $500 million, and it's basically able to decode, like, you
can type without a keyboard, and you can even, when you get good at it, you can type without
moving your fingers at all.
So it's basically a very high bandwidth interface, and it's, the guy who created it, his vision
was, like, doing neural interfaces and neural technology, so, like, neuroscience-type technology,
but why stop at, like, medical treatment?
Why, why, why, why do we put billions of dollars into, like, computer software and, like, iPhones
and, like, VR, but then, and we have all this neural interface technology, but we only
do it for, like, treating a disease, like, why do we stop there?
So his idea was, let's take that technology and then go towards increasing the bandwidth
between the human and the, and the computer system, and that's what they're, that's what
they're doing with Control Labs.
In my opinion, that's the big thing, it's, like, augmentative systems, and then, and then
there's a whole other realm, basically.
So, man, I may be able to add something valuable here, and that is that Control Labs, in terms
of, like, the, the application of BrainGate, in terms of giving people who, who, who can
no longer move their limbs, Control Labs may be a very valuable tool in that, in that specific
context, and, and it does make sense to compare Control Labs to Neuralink in only that respect,
in terms of controlling devices.
But, but, but, but, and that, that, that, but, and I say that because the, the differences
between what the machines are doing is vastly different, as, as Abe knows, it's not news
to Abe, but, um, uh, devices that, that might be, that might be more similar, I mean, you
can look up, um, and it won't be that useful for you to look up, but you can look up, uh,
Open Water by Mary Lou Jepsen, look for her talks on YouTube to read about what she's doing,
uh, I'm sorry, to watch her talks on YouTube to see, to see her talk about what she's doing,
uh, you can, you can look up, uh, Furoxa Microwave Imaging, there's, unfortunately, there's
not a lot for, uh, average folks to, to read on that topic, and I'll, I'll try to write
something about it, um, there's, so that there's more stuff out there.
There's also, um, there's, there's work, and you won't be, you're not gonna be able to
find a whole lot of information about, um, new work on combining, uh, deep learning
with, uh, with, um, electrical impedance tomography, they're seeing some huge, uh, medical imaging
results there for, for, uh, for, especially for, um, imaging brain, imaging the brain.
Um, they're, they're, um, the, uh, the idea that we can do, um, so MRIs are too slow, they
measure blood flow, but they measure blood flow really slowly, so the idea that we could,
we could speed that up, uh, with, with new, with new faster chips, uh, to, um, basically
detect, uh, neurons, uh, firing, uh, basically by, um, by, by, by, by reversing the refraction
of light, which is called holography, uh, and doing it fast enough so that we can, uh,
notice the expansion and contraction of neurons as they're firing.
That would enable us to basically, uh, read things as, um, as fast as Neuralink is reading
them, as precisely as Neuralink is reading them, but in a non-invasive way, and, and with,
uh, ultrasound, we could stimulate the brain also non-invasively.
So this, so this, this technology that Neuralink is, is doing, uh, potentially could be a non-surgical
and non-invasive and, uh, and, and, and, and, and the future, and, and that timeline, I don't
know what it is, but that, that could also be like a 15-year timeline, but the, the, the
idea is that maybe you don't get brain surgery and you just sit in the wrong car and behind
the headrest, there's a, there's a, there's, there's like a, there's, um, there's a device
that will wire, wirelessly take over your mind.
Right. So, so that's another possibility in the, in the, in the future world. Um, but,
but I, but I want to break down also. So for, for, from a layman's perspective, that there's
vast differences in, in what Neuralink is in terms of, we talked about how many sensors
and how many electrodes that maybe the different, the first devices we're talking like 3,000
electrodes. And, you know, each hair is like, uh, I think 16 electrodes. And then you have to have
a whole bunch of hairs to get to 3,000. And then, you know, potentially devices like 10,000
electrodes and each electrode is potentially reading from, you know, several hundred neurons.
And when you have many of them in a string, you can do, um, you can do things like, um,
you can, you can apply, uh, you can basically create a really precise, uh, maybe 3D map,
a spatial map of, of around the electrodes of what's firing and when, but this is like
compared to the Utah, right? Compared to DBS, compared to, um, any sort of electrical reading,
you know, done since, you know, electrodes have been implanted, uh, in, in people and in animals,
you know, for, for, for a very long time, over a hundred years, I think, um, that what you're
getting is a, not only like a massive, a massively greater amount of information, a massively higher
sampling rate. And, and just to like, you're getting big data, you're getting data that might
be more than your phone can handle. Your, your phone may not be able to handle the, the, uh, in
fact, I don't think that your phone's going to be able to handle the actual like sampling rate of,
of EEG currently, like, but, and this is vastly more, like, this is like way more than, uh, you know,
I, I mean, so, so, so we're, so with this big data, like doing things like BrainGate, this is, um,
this is stuff that is way below the capability of Neuralink in the longterm. The, the real
capability of Neuralink, I believe is, is actually in, in decoding the, the, the, the, the signals
that are passing between the micro clusters or, or neural columns, uh, or neural circuits, uh, and,
and really, really, um, beginning to decode what your thoughts are and then beginning to, to, uh,
to manipulate your thoughts. That's, that's, that's the bigger, longer term picture. As, as Abe said,
I, I don't expect this to happen, uh, in, in the first year or anything. And I don't know if the
timeline is 15 years, but, but I think this is real. For, for people in the room, and Mika and Abe,
I got two, two follow-up questions for you here. Uh, but for people in the room who are, who are
listening in, like, where, where, where the topic is, of course, Neuralink and, and whether, uh,
it's, uh, revolutionary or potentially, uh, has tragical consequences. And, uh, there's been
discussion on both, but, um, you know, we're very fortunate to have some folks here obviously
are at the front line of, uh, uh, some of this, this work and, and, uh, long before Neuralink showed
up. So the two questions I had for you guys is, you know, you referenced some of this prior
work. Um, I, I'm curious about where, uh, where, where are the, uh, sent, like the, um,
geographical locations of this work? Is there, are you seeing, uh, you know, you know, prior
to Neuralink and even now, um, uh, I'm sure there's more companies, uh, spending time in the
space. Are there certain cities, certain areas? And I'm curious for, for two reasons. One,
regulatory reasons. And I'm wondering whether, uh, you know, certain countries, uh, have perhaps
different moral, philosophical, uh, differences that, uh, might, uh, be okay with certain
types of research. And, uh, so, so that's the first question. Geographically speaking,
where, where, where's all this research and work happening? Uh, and then the second question
I can, I can do as a follow-up. So.
Well, I, I just wanted to, before we get into the answer, I just want to point out San Wu
is also very, uh, familiar with a lot of these topics in general and also Nick, um, Bergraf
and, and, and, uh, a couple other people. So I just want to make sure that they had a
chance to share their thoughts because Mike and I have both been going, babbling on for
quite a while. And I, I thanks again for the help, for pointing it out, pointing me out.
Oh, that's great. Yeah. Any, any one, any one of you guys, if you could just share some
thoughts on geography, where, where is all this happening? I mean, with computing, obviously
the Valley, uh, played a huge role to, to pushing things. Is this, is this predominantly in
the Valley as well, or is there other cities that are, uh, leading the, the charge?
Yeah, I'm not sure. Well, I can speak to just the basics of like country-wise, uh, you know,
most of this development is happening in the U S. Um, uh, a big, a cool company that comes
to mind is Neuropace. They were quite one of the innovators for a long time doing epilepsy,
uh, treatments. They had closed loop epilepsy treatment, of course, like Medtronic had the
implantable DBS. Um, there were several other companies that had, I mean, I, I, for me, it's
important to differentiate between kind of reality and, uh, you know, where in, in reality, as far as
like treatment goes, uh, not reality, but let's say clinical treatment or clinical implant of like
patients, even in a clinical study or commercialization is like, is, is, is one area of
something. So like Neuralink actually had a clinical trial, successful clinical trial, and then, um,
actually had a commercial product that they were implanting in patients as in a, in addition to
like Medtronic with the DBS. And I think that is significant, you know, cause it's, uh, you can do
a lot of stuff in the lab even, or just talk about it, but that's not the same as, as, as, uh, having
it done. Um, and then actually to ask your question about like other geographical locations, like that's
the, there's something called medical tourism. And, uh, basically you, you actually go to a
different country to get medical treatments and it's cheaper. And that's usually the reason people
do it. And you get very high quality medical treatments for a lot less money and insurance
companies even cover that nowadays because it's even cheaper with the flights and the hotels
than it would be to do the same thing in the U S. And there's other reasons to do medical
tourism, which could in the future be like you go to like an Island or something or a place
out of jurisdiction or just a country that has very lax, uh, laws. And then, uh, on
that topic. And if you have a very high quality system like Neuralink or something and you
get it implanted there and there's not as many restrictions and then you can get that for
like an augmentative purpose or something like that. I think in theory it's possible because
I think it's, it's, it's very likely that the FDA is just not going to open up like
applications for like augmentative types of things or treatments. If you don't have a
spinal cord injury or Parkinson's or ALS. Um, can I ask you a question?
Well, sorry, did I, I was just, uh, five seconds. Uh, I don't think that French is
also a country. Which country did I do? Which country did you say?
French.
But there's also a Brazil, Nicola in Brazil did a lot of cool, cool work in Brazil various
times. Uh, I, I had a quick question just to sort of follow up regarding the geographic
region. I think Travis posed a really interesting thought. Some, you know, there are, there
are some countries who have proven that they will use, um, you know, uh, technology to sort
of, um, to control the population or, or limit, um, the, the freedom of the population to some
degree. What do you think based on some of the issues that were brought up by Mika and, um,
and during this conversation, are there any thought as to, um, the threat against not
necessarily, um, against other people, but inside the country itself to utilize this technology
as a sort of, um, control method, uh, or, you know, uh, like a hype, like a hypothetical
would be, um, force implants where your thoughts, uh, would be decoded. Um, and if you, you know,
if you attended a meeting or viewed something that was considered a forbidden speech, you could
be essentially prosecuted, even though, because they'd have direct actors, uh, access to your thoughts
in that regard. Um, yeah, I just thought, like, I'm not sure how to really frame it, but essentially
the threat model regarding countries utilizing this technology in a really malicious way against
their own citizens for control purpose. Um, this is someone who was speaking, um, just wanted to add
on that and just to get back to the topic. I think it is revolutionary that there's a huge commercial
platform having, and it's such funding. I think it's always difficult for researchers to actually get
funding to do research. And then we have done a lot of those already. That's, you know,
what your link is saying, it's already been published, already been credited, but I'm not
sure how much credit are they giving to the scientists who actually wrote and did all the research in the
last two decades or not. And back on this Matt's point of view, um, I think the moment I was hearing
about it, I just think of a bunch of movies, ghost in the shell, a line of the battle angel and a bunch
of other things where they talk about not just patients, right? They're just normal people who
just want to extend their capability. They want to have a robotic arm. They want to actually,
you know, store memory better, better away, like with the actual chip, instead of you trying to
think about it, actually have a memory chip to actually get that exact photo off your mind and
show it to someone else. But when you think about it, anyone who have a higher power into the computing
system or the control center may be able to hack that system that you're actually using and then
actually control your mind or control your hand. So I always worry about this, uh, this wireless or
Bluetooth type of this, uh, hardware that people can track you. People can spy on you. People can
actually take over decisions for you. I mean, we already chip our pads and then we know exactly where
the pad is, even though it may be lost. And, you know, I think we're going in a direction where there
will be a whole lot of new communities, new laws, regulations, maybe as Abe and some others were
saying that it may be so difficult within us, maybe not be the case in some other countries.
I know some countries in Africa, we use Chinese telecom services. They already have the capability
to track you down and share your information online. So the, you know, political, political
party can exactly track that person down and, you know, prosecute you or prison you. And they actually
have tracking system on all their population. So it's already been happening on domains that we are
using right now. And I'm sure more, we make more things that can be controlled and more things that can be hacked.
I'm wondering if I'm going to chime in a little bit. Go ahead. Go ahead.
Yes, Manuel. Thanks. Um, so on the, one thing I, just to bring some clarity and, um, on the, the idea of decoding
brain signals. Um, I think it's really important to use words so that people who are a layman can
actually understand what is going on when we're talking about brain computer interfaces. And the
idea of decoding brain signals, I think it's a little bit disingenuous because, um, we're still
really at the capacity of really kind of like a super polygraph and that you can map a baseline and
you can get a control that's related to some idea. And then you can have the computer compare, do the
pattern recognition and apply control to that. That is not decoding brain signals of someone in trying to
identify what their thinking is. That is far from that. In fact, that leap is a near miracle if it is to
ever happen. Um, but for now, that is, how is that a straw man? I'm literally talking about what is
happening when you map neural activity and you store it and you use a machine recognition system to
compare what is happening in real time and you're making a guess. Right, but, but you're, that is not
decoding brain signals and identifying the content of someone's thoughts. That's, your, your statement
is true, but it's a straw man because you're talking about what we've done in the past, not what we're
going to do with this new technology, which is what I'm talking about. Okay, so you talk, okay,
great. So you talk, so you're, you're, so you have high hopes for it and that's great. I hope those
really, you know, come through. So no, I'm actually right. I'm actually, so the reason why, what I'm
saying is true is because the, the, the, the research that, so I'm, I'm currently writing a
book about all the research that has been done that it, that is, that we're going to use to apply
to decoding, uh, thoughts with this technology. Up to genetics, yes. You're going to use up to genetics
to, I guess, do it in some point. And I'm looking forward to it. I'm very excited for it. In the
meantime, though, well, if I could just, if I could just add real quick, I think when we talk about
decoding the signals, there's different levels of signals that you can decode, right? If you're
decoding an EEG activity, sure, you're going to get sort of broad scale, um, different regions that, and
picking up their activity. But if you're talking about sort of like a multiplex array type system,
you're going to be picking up the actual individual neurons within that region that you're,
you're sampling from. And so when you start to decode that, you know, you, you have multiple
different probes that are picking up a number of different neurons. And sometimes the probes,
you know, an individual probe is going to collect activity from, you know, three, four, five,
six neurons that are around it. And so you have to be able to take the signals and you have to be able
to sort all of those different signals in order to decode, like, what activity is coming from
an individual neuron versus what is coming from a number of different neurons. And so
there's different techniques that, that you can employ in order to literally, um, I guess, decode
the signals that are coming in to figure out how many neurons that you're recording from and where
are they in relation to the other ones. So some clarity around the term decode, if I walk up to a
stop sign and I read S T O P, I've decoded the symbols, right? But I've decoded the symbols based
on an installed ability to identify those symbols and to read a word, right? But if I'm not an English
speaker and I've never been taught English and I walk up to it and I somehow decode that it said stop,
that is the magical gate that you're trying to cross. And that's not been proven nearly, not even remotely.
Well, I think what you might be talking about is associating the activity with an action or with
a thought. I'm trying to get clarity around the term decode being brain signals. And I'm saying that
to map and to store some interpretation and to read and to pattern recognize it is not decoding in the sense
of putting something in somebody's head and reading their thoughts.
If I were to, Nick, I'd love to hear your thoughts. I just wanted to say like Emmanuel's point,
and this is a bit of the curse of knowledge, but like for anyone who's hearing this discussion
and who's relatively new to these concepts, I think Emmanuel raises a decent nuanced point,
which is this, that if you're walking away thinking that Neuralink or this technology currently,
as it's with the monkey video example, it's not reading the monkey's purest thoughts in terms of
what it wants to do. It's inferring it by training a neural net that every time these particular brain
patterns are occurring in this part of the region, the monkey seems to want to move the joystick in a
certain direction. And it's predicting or inferring intent, I guess. And that's not the same as the
monkey's actual thought of, I want to move this thing, I guess. And so that's a useful nuance point for
anyone listening.
It's a really important point because the ultimate goal, like I think Abe suggested, of getting to the
point of Cree being able to actually do augmentation, or as we call it, intelligence amplification,
does not require one to be in the brain. That's the point that I was trying to make.
Oh, sure, sure, yeah.
I have a question.
All right, go ahead.
Um, so what do you think is the real decoding?
Well, real decoding would mean that you walk into a room and somebody has some sort of like EEG sensor
placed on your head, and whatever you're thinking starts essentially just going into some,
you know, interpreter that says what you're thinking. And that's impossible. It's important
because the reason why it has to be made clear that that's impossible is because behavioral biometric data
is not just about like my privacy in the sense that, oh, yeah, it was my thoughts, or it was my email,
or it was my behavioral biometric data is your nervous system and activity in real time. Now,
if some company or some whatever government figures out how to straight decode behavioral biometrics,
everything that, all data, all signals that come from your nervous system are behavioral biometric,
whether you want to call them, you know, EEG, or you want to call it heart rate, you want to call it
just freaking facial recognition, whatever. It's behavioral biometric, but to be able to suddenly,
without the reference, decode behavioral biometrics, all right, and then use it is the ultimate
control of humanity. It's the ultimate. There's nothing beyond that.
If I can ask a question regarding like your focus on decoding, I think my statement when I was asking
about whether or not a country or entity could point this technology in a malicious way at an
individual or group of individuals, I think it's not whether or not it can be decoded in real time
and controlled or sort of bi-directional signal amplification like you mentioned, but more so to
the point of analyzing. And I think just sort of like the precedence on this is that black mirror
episode. I think most of us have probably seen, if I can take a presupposition, but it's where the
patterns could be analyzed. Because I think Mika had a really strong idea about the future uses of this,
and there is one hypothetical where if we're talking about analyzing and like recording short-term
memory and all of these neurons and activity going on in the brain, and if we were to record that,
like we saw in that black mirror episode, that's sort of where my head was at when I was asking the
question about hypothetically, let's say, without proper constraints or ethical guidelines like we would
see maybe in the West, is there sort of like this idea that, or threat, that we believe could be
precedent? Here's the good news. The good news, just quickly if I can respond to him. The good news is,
yeah, we're not able to decode brain signals, right? And if we were, it would be extremely dangerous.
But here's the bad news. We can do the stuff that you're imagining without decoding brain signals. We
could do it with basic behavioral biometrics, whether you're typing on the computer, whether
you're essentially taking, whether I'm taking two or three shots of your face in 10-minute intervals
from your camera, phone, whether your activity through the accelerometer, and Lord God help me,
you give me your heart rate. I mean, I used to work for the State Department doing psyops in Afghanistan
12 years ago, and I figured out back then that I could do, I could map your neurodynamics between
your patient and your heart rate. And that's before you even get into the content of your psyche.
So, I mean, what's possible today is sublime.
I think, though, just that analysis that you just determined, right, like the telemetry and all these
other biometric indicators, that's interesting to a point, but you're still running on a assumption
basis, which is you're assuming that these various data points are correlating to a hypothesis that you
Well, that's the thing. That's like I just said. Again, if you're looking at it in terms of me
trying to identify what the content of your psyche is, you're missing the point. I can make better
inference based on your neurocognitive dynamics to decide what decisions you're going to make. I don't
necessarily care for the content of your psyche.
Okay, Didai-Dai, did you have a comment in between this? Because I had one more addition to that after.
Um, yeah, I basically, same thing as, um, well, manual, you kind of just, like, cancel your stuff.
It's like, essentially, you're asking a question of, like, is correlation equals to causation, right?
Um, but then how much does it matter, right? Like, uh, if I could, if, let's say, if you're an engineer,
it only matters if you're a neuroscientist, like, oh, I want to know if the signal is the cause of this
behavior. Um, but it doesn't, it doesn't really matter if you're trying to make a commercial product
or if you're an engineer. Like, as long as you have a working model that, like, uh, that's, like, can
have a high accuracy in predicting something, like, um, yeah, like, I don't see, I don't, I, yeah, I don't, yeah,
I, yeah, yeah, they're at a very high accuracy right now. That's what I'm saying. They're at a very high
accuracy right now. And what we can do, first and foremost, is actually create, bring some clarity
to the difference between behavioral biometric data in real time, because that has to do with
literally knowing your cognitive dynamics in real time. And if we put, if we just throw that data
in with your pictures on Facebook, the advantage is the difference between a mosquito bite
infringement on your privacy and an elephant trampling on your cognitive, in your cognition
in real time.
So, I just want to make fun, like, because I think that, that Manuel's getting, hitting on a really
important point here, and it's just touching on something that I was, like, trying to explain
earlier, which is, like, so we keep talking about the ethics of this stuff, and then, like, the cognitive and
decoding, and it's so important to address, like, we, what, what is the big difference of actually
having an intracortical or an implantable electrode system, or decoding actual neural signals, and all
that, you know, because we have, so the neural signals are mapped into physical reality through
the body, and language, and things like that. So you, we already have the ability to map facial
expressions, you know, your habits, um, what you write, like, you know, Google is, like, analyzing
everything you write, uh, in all your, in all your emails, all your searches, Facebook is doing the
same thing, and then they're analyzing for your advertising type of profile, and then they're
selling it to advertisers, like, um, what, so, I think it's so important to get into, when you start
getting access to neural data, what is that changing in the picture, because you can't even talk about
that if you don't understand, you're, it's like Matthew's bringing in what the current picture
actually is, which I think most people here probably don't even understand the level, and I don't know
if this is, like, sensitive territory or something, but, like, you, you know, when someone's watching
you, they, they, uh, they can, like, yeah, you can learn a lot about someone, just by what, just by
looking at their habits, and looking at, more than you can fathom, sorry, more than most people can
fathom, yes, you can learn so much more, yeah, that's what I'm saying, is, like, what does neural, so
that's what I'm just saying, is, like, we have the neural, your brain is already mapped to the outside
world, you know, that's your body, and it's your, uh, voice, and, and what you see is the input,
and what you hear, and it's, like, this is all available, right, because you don't need a brain
computer interface to do that, the interface is the sense organs and the motor, motor control, um,
so that's, I think that's such a, such a key point, and it's, uh, um, it's kind of related also to this
whole ethical thing, it's, like, everyone talks about what's, what are the ethics of, of, like, what we can
access, and, and all that, but, like, why don't we also talk about the ethics of what's actually
currently happening, which is breaking ethical and privacy guidelines, um, yeah, I don't know,
so those are just some interesting. Can I say, can I say something about. Yeah, I mean, I just, if,
if, if, for those people listening, like, I, I, what I think just, uh, if I can try to sum it in layman's
terms, you guys are saying that the vast majority of the things that, uh, potentially
could, uh, sort of, uh, be the equivalent of those, uh, what's that, uh, Matt, what's that,
uh, forgetting that, what's the name of those Black Mirror episodes, where things get really,
really out of hand, uh, those things could occur long before we can actually read thoughts, and in
fact, many of those things, uh, uh, in terms of applications happening through smartphones and,
and will continue to, uh, inch away, and so we could begin those debates and separate that from
the very, uh, specific advancement of Neuralink. Is that, is that a fair, uh, uh, summary of that?
I think that's, I think, I think that's a good, that's a good point. Um, what I, what I, what I
want to say, uh, is, is a couple things. One is that, um, uh, that, so, so there's, you can look
this up on Wikipedia. It's called effective computing, um, and it's basically the idea of using multiple,
uh, sensor modalities, or, or, um, you know, just basically, um, analyzing user behavior, uh,
and the behavior on a computer, and, uh, and, and making predictions about what it, maybe about what,
uh, making predictions about the user. That, that could be how the user feels, or what their intentions
are. This is, this is a, a kind of decoding. And, and really, what I want to talk about is decoding for
a second. So, you know, when it comes to the, to the Utah array, or to, or to the, the, the Neuralink
device that we've seen, uh, I'm sorry, I meant BrainGate, or the, the monkey in the, in the Neuralink
video, where the, where the, we're basically, uh, that is like recreating the BrainGate where,
where we're decoding the monkey's, uh, intention based upon reading, uh, neural patterns to the
intention of where, uh, the monkey wants to move the cursor. And so that is a certain, I would say,
let's, let's call it a certain resolution of decoding that you can get with BrainGate. Now,
when you increase the resolution and the, the, the, the sampling rate and, uh, and, and basically
the, the, the amount of data that you can collect from the brain, so that basically what you can
recode or reconstruct from that data is a vastly high resolution. Um, uh, uh, basically it's like,
it's like going from, uh, not only knowing what the monkey's intention is, but knowing of where it,
where it wants to move the cursor, but, but knowing very precisely where it wants to move the cursor.
And maybe, and maybe knowing a little bit more about what the monkey intends. So, so, uh, you know,
now when you're, when, when the monkey is, maybe the, the, the computer, uh, is doing eye tracking on
the monkey and there's a bunch of things in the, in the environment and the monkey is, uh, seeing a
banana and, and you're, and, uh, there's some neural activity that, that, um, neural link is picking
up when the monkey thinks about a banana. And, and so, uh, the monkey's still doing the cursor thing. It's,
you're it's neural link is, is predicting where the cursor, uh, needs to go very accurately faster
than the monkey can move the cursor when it was moved, when it was using the joystick. And, uh, and
the, the neural link is noticing when the monkey wants a banana or an apple or a grape, this is,
this is high resolution decoding. And when we, and as we, the, the thing is with neural link is such a
huge leap forward in the resolution and capability that what higher resolution decoding is like, um,
this is when we can, we can begin to like, you know, we know that the monkey is thinking about
a banana and we know the, the, the cursor's over there and, and maybe, and, you know, you put this
in a human being and, and maybe we know what word a person is, is thinking about or, or what, um,
which picture a person is thinking about. And so the resolution of decoding matters a lot. And, and
that's why it's, this is different. Michael raises a very good point. Oh, go ahead. Sorry. Thank you.
Uh, the resolution between, I guess, like a regular EEG device and neural link is astronomical.
Nobody is debating that. It's insane. Uh, but it's still in the motor cortex and the motor cortex,
obviously is extremely, uh, um, uh, uh, uh, uh, favorable to mapping. So that works perfectly for
people who have, I don't know, people who are disabled and would like a way to interface with
their computer if they don't have, you know, the voice or, or, or, or a tactile or something like
that. So nobody is questioning the, uh, the value there. I'm, I'm just trying to bring some clarity
around what it means to read your mind. And what we're saying is if what you want to arrive at is
intelligence amplification, it turns out you don't need to be in the brain at all because there's
more than enough information in real time, especially if you have a wearable device on
or I can essentially look at your face and do intermittent times, you know, to give you the
opportunity to cultivate that closed loop potential and improve your neurocognitive dynamics. And with
that, your decision-making and exploration capabilities and learning curve, that is possible
today. Uh, so not, not disagreeing with you, uh, not disagreeing with you there in that terms of
like effective computing, uh, and which is the way to describe what you just said is, is a way to
the, the, what we can do with EEG and eye tracking, the limits of those technologies alone, just those
two, hasn't come close to, uh, what, what is their, their potential possibility, but just those,
those two technologies. So we, we haven't, uh, there's far more, but, but, but to the topic of the room,
uh, when, when Neuralink offers is, um, is for, for, you know, the two main points I think about is,
this is, this is not a technology we can stop from happening. And two, uh, next level decoding
of thoughts, uh, is, uh, is very, very likely. And, uh, and I, if, if I apologize to people who
don't want to hear that, but. No, no. And I think just, I want to definitely, uh, there's a few folks
who haven't chimed in yet. Um, uh, definitely want to get their opinions as well, but I have a larger
question for you guys here. There's a, there's a lot of technical experience in the room.
Um, I'm going to use an analogy to help sort of frame the question. So when we look at Tesla,
like we know where the breakthroughs are, it's essentially, uh, you know, obviously the battery
manufacturing capabilities, the, uh, the ability to, you know, autonomous driving is, uh, next in the
horizon. Like you can start listing out like the core breakthroughs, uh, when it comes to Neuralink,
like, like, what, what are the, like you, you guys are touching on it, but I'd love to hear
like, what, like, like thematically, what are these like core pillars that they're advancing that
they, that the, maybe the, the built on the prior work, but as these guys have taken it to, uh,
like a necessary step to commercialize, is it the, the wires and, and, and, and, and the
position around surgery, surgical implementation, the resolution. If you guys can just comment on
some of those core architectural, uh, pillars that, uh, you know, uh, that make Neuralink, uh,
particularly revolutionary, I'd love to hear people's thoughts and, um, you know, yeah. So go ahead.
I would say, um, the scale, you know, the scalability of the product,
because I think most of the technology, like has been mentioned by Abe, by Mike, by Micah,
you know, most reputable neuroscience departments, let's say in academia,
have most of the, uh, tool sets that are available, um, that Neuralink is using. It's nothing,
uh, you know, monumental by any means in terms of what they're actually recording and, and doing
in the brain, but to be able to scale that is, is no small feat. And that's what is very,
very impressive. Um, but not only that, but, um, kind of, and Micah touched on it earlier too,
which I never really thought about, but it's, it's really an interesting idea is that the ability to
handle that much data, uh, in some sort of smaller package, um, that's,
that can be utilized across, you know, thousands or millions of users, because even as it is right
now, even if you stick one probe into the brain, uh, to record, let's say 300 or 500 neurons,
uh, individually, it is, it's not a fast process to, to analyze all that data. Uh, and you need a,
uh, a certain amount of computing power that most, um, residential folk do not have at their hands.
Uh, so it'll be interesting to see how they'll be able to sort of scale down the computing power
that's necessary in order to handle that much information that's coming in. Because I think
you guys were talking about decoding. I think there's a number of different levels of decoding.
And so, you know, when we talk about it first, you need to, you need to take the signal that's
coming from the brain itself and you need to figure out what's contributing to that signal,
which neurons are firing and how are they firing. And, and then on top of that, now you need to
decode the activity, uh, that is, uh, you know, responsible for creating that signal, which is
more, you know, putting it to an action or a personality, and then you need to map it into the
person themselves for inter individual, um, differences. So I think the ability for scale,
and which is why it's very cool with Neuralink being, you know, uh, very much with Elon Musk
and in the Tesla group, I think the, the capabilities of them to scale that is definitely in good hands,
but that would be what I would think is the most revolutionary thing about it.
Could you, so maybe if you are, if someone can elaborate on the scale piece,
am I hearing this correctly? So every aspect of what they're doing, uh, even the choice of materials,
like has been used, uh, uh, uh, uh, in, in labs that have been essentially working in this specific
domain, or are they pulling things from, I don't know, the semiconductor or other industries that
historically, uh, are, are more, you know, needed for the scale aspect of it, but, uh, uh, are they
bringing in other domains that traditionally were not mixed, uh, brought into the mix to achieve scale or
other, other technologies, other applications? I'll give you an example, like, uh, for battery
manufacturing, uh, you know, Tesla had, uh, looked to bottle manufacturing and adopted some of these
practices to, to help, you know, uh, increase, um, the production capacity and reduce its costs and
achieve economies of scale. So I'm just curious, like, like, what are some of these things that these
guys are doing to achieve scale? Um, is it, is that stuff, you know, any, any technical advancements
there that they're pulling from other places? Well, I have actually two questions, one of which
I've addressed this point. So, um, it's sort of related. So I'm going to put forth, again, I should
probably mention I'm not a bio person. I deal with physics, so very far from this, but there are two
things that should be of note. The first is, I think I really like Micah's point of, you know,
how much resolution are we getting is a very different ethical dilemma based upon how
fungible a learned model is, how replaceable the human is. That is, if I train a model on,
say, Micah, and how he conducts motor activities, how does that model transfer to another person,
right? And based on that, you have different degrees of privacy concerns and ethical concerns.
Now, that's a very interesting notion, and I'd be very curious just to understand how similarly
different brains interact that I think that is scientific goal in and of itself. And it's also
ethically really concerning because it means you could say, train a model, then force your device
upon a prisoner of war or something and use them to interrogate out the entirety of the enemy's
military formations using an implantable device. That's freaking scary. Now, while I was thinking
about that, I was thinking about learning and I was realizing that say you have a model that you've
learned, right? Now, conventionally, what you guys probably do, and you'd know this better than I do,
is you weight systems so that your output matrix can be reduced and you have a sensible result.
Keshav? K-E-S-H-A-B-A-D-H-Y-A-Y.
It's a very, very simple model. Say I turn on a light to on thrice and off once, or it's 1-1-0,
1-1-1-0, or 1-1-0, or anything like this. You have like a finite state machine, and it's very
simple in electrical engineering to come up with a circuit which will look at a system which goes
through a finite state sequence and directly code that to give a given result. Now, you could either
go through a lot of transistors to make do with this in a very abstract system, say an x86 system,
or you can just come up with an FPGA, that's a field programmable gate array, or an ASIC, and use
custom digital logic which is trained to recognize a certain sequence and use that for processing. So,
what I'm saying is, say you had a reprogrammable ASIC or an FPGA in every person, all of a sudden,
the scale goes down to such a degree, and there's so much parallelization because of the way it
operates, that I do think that becomes entirely tenable to handle this on a very, very large scale.
I think that's a really interesting point. Regarding scalability though, because we're
really hypothesizing about future technologies, and if we apply Moore's law to all of this as well,
there is the application or the inference that we can make that scalability for processing and
increased processing power will go down in size, or we'll find some new revolutionary method for
handling all of this. I do think though, on this note about talking about scalability and all this
large-scale data processing, for everyone in the room, a general question I want to throw out there is,
what are the implications of being able to analyze the big data coming from everyone's brain?
What kind of, like, what would that mean for, like, we got, like, um, Manuel made some really good points
about, um, um, bio-indicators and how much inference you can get out of those, uh, just by itself. Those are
generally available, uh, right now. What happens when we actually can scale and find those key indicators
right from the, the human brain? What does that mean when extrapolated and analyzed across, like,
million-plus population sizes? Definitely don't need anybody worried by the brain and having a
population of cyborgs to get super-rationality because you can do it with the existing technology.
The question is, are you going to create laws that protect individual behavioral biometrics to make it
even feasible in the first place? But it would be an extreme advantage, yes, to arrive at super-rationality.
I, uh, I have a, my retort to that would be laws are not a clear indicator of, of prevention. They're,
they're not, they're, they're a reaction more than anything. Laws are about creating design spaces.
Right now, everyone in technology who works with machine prediction is designing in the approach of
artificial intelligence, which means that they're trying to create a standalone complex that will be
able to read humanity and be a benevolent shepherd to it. That's one approach. Another approach
is intelligence amplification. You're using the same resource, that resource is called machine
prediction, but you're doing it in a different approach. You're allowing the individual to optimize
their cognitive dynamics and their learning potential. But you cannot do that until you can
essentially create a line that separates the data necessary to do the one versus the other.
If you, if you have no line, then everybody's approaching it from the standpoint of artificial
intelligence, and everybody's using all the data and however they see fit, and you have a land of
confusion. Now to Kev's, Kev's point, um, that you were, uh, and it goes right along the line with your
question about what is the, what do you gain from this kind of thing is, is the quest, the problem of
the empathy gap. If you create a universal model of human, the human mind, whether that model is, you know,
it might be universal in terms of how you gathered data and essentially modeled it, but you still will
have an empathy gap in that it will not relate in any way to the mind of an individual walking down
the street. Like, and if you assume and say, well, based on the science of my having collecting 10
billion parameters and created this model that it's, that it's right, then you're now in the land of
tyranny. That's a really interesting point. That's, that's what I was actually kind of wondering,
but I think you summarized it. I'm not sure very based on, and, and you know, everyone's individual.
I just wanted to make a point which is sort of on a different aspect of, um, the Neuralink's
impact on us and vice versa. How is the human mind going to cope with something being implanted into
it, which is neither the self nor the imagination? What keeps us from going down this like weird
schizophrenic, out of touch with reality thing? Once some things exist within our own minds,
which don't pertain to the self, don't pertain to ourselves. What will be the impact on our own
psyche is my question. And if there's any neuroscientists or psychologists in here who
can tell me if the brain will cope with hearing voices, all of us from this Neuralink thing.
You differentiate between like control the computer and like a keyboard and a computer that like, you know,
having access to social media or... I think the difference for me is that the sensory input
and sort of action output, it's clear. These are tools like our eyes, mouths, hands. These are tools
that we've evolved with millions, God knows how long. So when something like this gets implanted into
the mind and body out of nowhere, how, how are we going to be able to handle that? So I think Nika is
raising a point as in, we already have the sensory modalities, five modalities, let's say,
but having this implant will be our sixth modality that is not part, that has not been part of our
evolution or development and suddenly implanted. However, how is our brain or mind or our consciousness
going to cope with interacting with such external, I guess, I guess, external hardware that's in our
brain. And just thinking about that, I think for people who require such equipment, let's say,
in the medical community, people will be more inclined to use it. But for people who just want
to enhance their capabilities, I think that's where people are going to be murky about whether they
choose to do it or not. But for the medical community, I think it will be a huge push and advancement.
Also, Nikki, can you elaborate? Because like, well, sorry, I just, I worked on a project called
BrainGate that was a motor interface that we actually did, an implantable motor, like enabling
people to control computers and robotic arms with thought. That's pretty much just like they couldn't
move their arms, so they can think about moving their hand or arm, and then the computer will
actually do what they want. And I was wondering if you can, I think what you're trying to say
is like, in the case where you have an auditory prosthesis that you're getting sound into your
brain without the traditional sensory organ like the ear, I think that's what you're saying. I'm just
not 100% clear, like, you know, what you're, what you're getting at with regards to a neural
interface. Because like a neural interface does not necessarily imply that things are, you know,
working completely differently from the current system. For example, if you don't have an arm,
and you get a neural interface that decodes the hand and arm movement, and then you get a prosthetic
arm connected to your body, and you're controlling the prosthetic arm, I mean, that's not, that's not
different from having an arm in most regards. It's just a replacement arm. Or if you have an auditory
prosthesis, or even like, let's say a cochlear implant, or a more neural interface auditory
prosthesis, so you have a microphone, and then you put the sound into your brain, that's not
any different. So I, I'm just curious, can you elaborate on what you're getting at?
Um, Sun Wu actually did a pretty good reiteration of my point here. It's, it's the whole concept of
having another sense added to us. In the case of like, having a robotic arm be controlled directly
by the brain, I can see why there's a bit more sort of transference with the skills
our brain and body already has for things like moving arms. My anxieties are more directed towards
what would it be like to have a Google bar implanted directly into our mind?
I, I can actually, I can answer that with a real example. Um, so there, there, there's a,
there's a neuroscientist, uh, his name is David Eagleman. Uh, he was Texas based,
he's San Francisco, he's San Francisco Bay Area based now, but he, um, he wrote, he's written
a bunch of books. I recommend that you check out his books. Um, and one of the things that he talks
about, um, are basically, um, alternative, uh, kinds of, of neural interfaces that implant information
into your brain. For example, uh, there's been, uh, there have been, uh, tongue strips that have
electrodes on the tongue, uh, and, and they're connected to a camera, and you give this to someone who's
blind and they can begin to make out an image from the data, from the electrodes on their tongue
and that are coming from the camera. So it's okay. So it's like, imagine that, uh, every pixel in,
in the camera, which represents the image that's being captured is causing a corresponding, uh,
electrical stimulation on, on a flat grid that stimulates their tongue. And the person is able
to see basically, uh, a crude picture of reality, uh, via, via that stimulation. So the image from the
camera is going into their brain because they're, because their tongue is being stimulated. This,
this same, uh, thing has also been done with a back strip of electrodes, uh, a really large back
strip where people were able to see it through their back. So the camera was plugged into, you know,
the, the, the, the, the pixels on the, on the camera corresponded to a simulation on their back
and their brain turned that into an image. Um, so that's an example of how you can plug in data
into the brain. And so David Eagleman further goes on to talk about how you could do that with stock
data. You could, you could send stock data directly into someone's brain, uh, with the, with the
similar idea. Now, if we, if we bypass the tongue in the back, um, and, and then we just, you know,
basically directly stimulate neurons. And the idea is like, okay, so if we can, by watching a person eat
broccoli, uh, uh, enough times and watching many people eat broccoli enough times, watching their
neurons and, and watching in just the right places. So we notice just the right, just the right temple
and spatial patterns in neural activity that, that correspond to broccoli most of the time,
then the idea here is that if we could, if we could then recreate those patterns through brain
stimulation, if we could recreate the temple and spatial patterns by stimulating neurons, uh, that we saw
the temple spatial patterns that we saw in medical imaging that corresponded with broccoli, if we
could recreate them inside someone's neurons, then that person might perceive broccoli where there
is none. There's, there are experiments with which you, uh, can give someone special brain stimulation
and they, they, I think it's a transcranial magnetic stimulation and they might see like a light.
Um, there's examples of, um, you know, I guess, I guess, I mean, um, you know, there, there are many
examples of altered brain activity where, where someone takes some sort of medication and they, and they see
things, uh, that are not really there. They see patterns are not really there, uh, hallucinogenic
medication, for example. Uh, and there's also, um, examples of, you know, people who hear things
that are not really there. And, and, and, you know, I, I, I guess schizophrenia is a topic that,
that we don't really want to go into, but, but there, but, but you can sort of like consider,
well, how do those people deal with it? Um, and it's that particular, um, in that particular
instance, uh, schizophrenia is very devastating. And like I said, we don't really want to go to,
to that topic because it's kind of sad, but, um, but yeah, so, so these are,
check out David Eagleman's work, uh, and, and that may really, um, uh, be, be an area that,
of your interest. So, um,
Thank you, Mika. Um, sorry. I just wanted to also ask if, do you know if David Eagleman conducted
these experiments with conducting, sorry, putting these, um, how do you call it, putting
the input directly to the mind through the tongue or the back or whatever images in the mind rendering
these images and actually seeing it, would it work with people who are born blind or are these people
who are just, they had their eyes covered, they went blind, what's the deal with that?
But at the same time, um, the schizophrenia aspect, I'm, I'm hesitant because you can't always tell
ahead of time and I'm nervous if they start putting these implants into people who are predisposed or
anything like that. It could be an entire disaster, but that's too cynical. Agreed. Yeah. The, the,
the potential for mistakes are big. I just forgot. What was the previous question?
As to David Eagleman studies, uh, do you know if the, the people who are being tested on, did they
always have vision? Did they lose their vision? Were they born blind? Okay. So, um, so I can answer
this question, uh, in a general way. Um, you, you want to, you probably want to look up David Eagleman's,
uh, studies for a specific answer, but, um, the general, so the general question is that, uh, so what happened
is, um, there have been experiments on rats where they've taken an eyeball out of a rat's, uh, eye socket,
and they've plugged it into the part of the brain that, um, is the, the, called the, um, considered
to be the audio cortex and the audio cortex of the brain, which is supposed to be for processing
your ears learned to see. So the idea here is that the, the, um, the neocortex is a general
learning algorithm. You can plug in any sensor into any place and yeah, because, because in this,
the reason is because, uh, basically, um, it's, it's as if the neocortex is, is, has the same sort
of way of functioning, uh, no matter what it's functioning. It's like, like, like you plug in any
sense and it can process any sensation. It's like a general learning algorithm.
To add to Nikki's point about people who are born blind, because I did some work on, uh, uh,
lesion or surgery or accidents in their primary visual cortex, but I think you'll be interested
to know the work of Amedi from Israel. I think it's a Weisman Institute or maybe Tel Aviv,
but he works with people who are conservative blind. They're born blind, but how do they actually
learn to navigate through space and see is what he does is that he actually, uh, trains these
patients or blind people to use cameras that actually read out your area and then send very specific
sound, timber, pitch, tone, whatnot. So you would associate different type of patterns of sound
through space, color, depth, and objects. And more recently, he's been shown that these patients
can actually differentiate between color of red, green, and blue, or like if this is Sprite,
this is Coke, things like that. And they could literally have these blind patients who are
successful in learning easy over two to three years, can actually walk through MACE.
And if you actually run fMRI and other type of brain imaging data, brain imaging techniques on these
patients, they're, they've never had any visual input through their visual system. So technically,
their primary visual cortex would be just not working, assumed, but when they actually learned to
navigate the visual world using sound as an association, he actually saw a representation
of space in primary visual cortex, but their input was auditory system, right? So our understanding that
visual, um, this specific brain areas are very localized and specific may not be so true that certain
areas we call visual area are not just visual area. There are other audio visual multi-sensory
integrated neurons and populations that actually interact with one another. So I highly recommend
you read into a medisport if you're very interested. And some people like, uh, Project Prakash by
Power Sinha from MIT. He worked with patients or actually population in India who easily after
cataract surgery can gain vision, but they are, it's so, you know, in such remote part of the world,
they don't even know about the surgery. So when they're born, they literally have no vision. So they
take, he takes all this, uh, doctors to actually perform the cataract surgery. And suddenly after nine
years, you gain this rich information of feature about the world. And these people have not having
access to vision in their critical period are now suddenly having all this information coming through their eye.
So, of course, there is some transition that happens in individual development that they
have problems with occlusions and, you know, detecting certain border lines and whatnot. But
with enough treatment, these patients or these children can actually gain as normal sight as a
person who was actually not born with such eye problems. So I think there are enough interesting
research going on right now on people who are born blind or could be, you know, normal, but did not
have a surgery. I also wanted to, like, I think I'm starting to understand the, the concept of like,
if you just start getting access to tons of data and information, and you know, I think a lot about
Yosha Bach's description of consciousness and like, you know, like, what if you can just,
your BCI is like accessing and helping you control your own attention or like direct access to
memories and like filing through the memories and filing direct information or cognitive stuff.
Um, I think that's a really interesting question. And I, I, it's kind of like what happens like,
is it possible? And then what happens in that situation? Like, does your brain just like spark
to life with like this new dimensional types of abilities? Um, and I, there's another area that's
related to this, uh, that I'm interested in, uh, I, it's hard to describe it, but it's basically
looking into almost consciousness, but like psychic phenomena and things like that,
that would, where you're talking about schizophrenia or psychosis, that definitely would be a negative,
uh, issue. Like, but there are other, there are other things that are in like altered state of
consciousness. Like we already, people do like LSD or psychotropics and things like that and access
different areas. I have a similar question to ask actually. So, um, let's consider a state space,
right? So say you have, um, so this is, I'm going to use math terminology. Please, some of the CS
people over here break it out into the language you guys actually use. So say you have a real number,
right? Any real, any real has a cardinality. The space of reals has a cardinality of the continuum.
Now say I have R2 or R3, where N is a natural number. All of these will still have the cardinality
of the reals that is the continuum. And if I wanted to say map all of say R2 or to R, you know,
R1, I can essentially using a modular system map all of R2 onto R1 because I can split it into two parts
based on congruences. There's essentially a linear trade-off between how many different, um, states
I have and how accurate, you know, I have to be if I have a single finite double as a variable type.
So my question is, is there also a linear drop-off between how many nerves am I looking at and when
they're firing? Like if say a nervous fire is on or off at a certain time, is there a linear trade-off
and accuracy for the number of nerves you have for the same state space? And secondly, if as Maika says,
these are all spatiotemporal signals, does that not mean that when you send them in,
every input has to have a certain time signature? That is say, I have a spatiotemporal
reaction alpha, which corresponds to me tasting a banana. Does that mean for you to induce the
taste of a banana in a subject? You need to be stimulating for a time period alpha? So essentially,
we are limited by how much time each subtask takes to process? Or is there say a harmonic system to
these spatiotemporal setups where we can just speed these up by an integer multiple or something?
And of course, the obvious workaround I see over here is we don't send in a read pulse, which is,
this is what a banana tastes like. We can try to send in a right pulse, which is, this is my body's
reaction after I tasted the banana. And I'm trying to understand how these things play in terms of
complexity and getting around this time limitation. Some of the narrow of the fundamental, like the
systems neuroscience. Um, I feel like you're asking, I, I, um, so, I mean, this is not, it's, it's, it's,
it's specifically cognitive neuroscience. Um, but it's also, so we're just, so, so the, the topic,
we're talking about, um, basically the site, the, like the precise mechanics of decoding
temporal spatial frequencies. Um, I sort of, I tuned out a little bit, uh, with what Keshav was saying.
It, it's just that the, the, um, some, some of the things that, um, that you're talking about are,
are beyond a little bit beyond, uh, where, where the research is at currently. Um, that's my,
that's my opinion. Um, that's from what I've, from what I've read. Okay. Thanks. Sorry. Again,
I'm a complete outsider. I've never taken organic. So everything you guys can help me with over here
is greatly appreciated. Chip, is it, is it, is that, uh, did I say your name right?
Oh, it's Keshav. Okay. So, um, when it comes to neural encoding, there aren't any,
at least like to my understanding, it's basically like a classification and clustering algorithm. But,
um, if you're trying to at least like model the hemodynamics response, like for example,
um, it actually regulates, uh, the blood flow, uh, and like into the blood, like it regulates the,
the blood flow vis-a-vis controlling the cerebral pressure. And there are, um, state space equations
that actually dictate that you can actually, uh, create, uh, a transfer function that can, um,
essentially model the, the, um, input as well as the response of, of, uh, you know, brain actually
regulating the cerebral response and like cerebral, uh, pressure. And, but these are like highly
granular responses. Like, uh, they don't actually really apply, uh, to, to say like decoding the brain,
because you have a discrete system. At least I read out the neural response because you're, you're,
you're just counting the, uh, the spikes and, and neurons have certain, uh, discreteness and the
way they, they fire. So I don't know if that answers your question, but. Oh, it helps a lot.
And just to clarify then. So is there like, um, a time series, like say, um, say I'm modulating
at a certain rep rate. I can only send in so many bits of information in a given second. So is there
like a limitation to how many bits you can send in for, uh, you know, given spatial temporal pattern?
Right. So this is highly constrained, not mistaken. Yeah. Just sorry. I'm taking up a lot of time.
I just want to clarify. So what you're telling me is if I have a perfect good drive signal and it's
nice and triangular, perhaps you're telling me that with 200 to 500 kilohertz, I'm going to match the
behavior of a neuron. So I think what the time series, I don't know if Nick wants to jump in
in front of me, cause then he's, he's a very good neuroscientist, but, um, you know,
with, in terms of the time series, I think what you're, what you're thinking about with the
neural link is basically, uh, watching one neuron fire after another and then another one. And so
from that, like the time series is, is, um, uh, uh, constructed, probably constructed from that
in terms of, yeah, two to five milliseconds. But I think the whole neuron, you know, after it fires,
it has, it goes, it's inhibited for a while. It doesn't have any activity in the full reset time.
I guess I've heard it was closer to 10, 10 milliseconds before it's, before it's sort of ready to go again.
I'm not going to fire again, 1000 Hertz. Um, and that's very much within.
So we're going to reach a point where we can essentially judge people's, um,
what the muscles are doing, what the neurons are individually doing in different parts of the body.
If people were wearing say a suit, which has superconducting devices on it. And that means
that you can get tons of information out. And I'm wondering if it's possible to create a feedback
system, which would be at par with it. And for reference, uh, superconducting systems have very
low impedance. So it's not uncommon for them to work at like an RF frequency range. So it's super,
super fast. Like 40 gigahertz is perfectly normal. So I was wondering if you could have 40 gigahertz
IO to a human brain and that would be kind of, yeah, that'd be pretty awesome.
Well, yeah. And I don't, I don't know if it helps at all, or if it's completely off point, but,
um, especially in terms of if we're saying like augmentation of brain activity, like if you try
to speed up the natural processes that are already there, the neurons tend to very quickly go into
what's called paroxysmal block where they don't fire anymore. So if you try to speed up the rate
of those firing of the neurons in order to stay, you know, take a normal process that takes
one millisecond and condense it down into a 10th of a millisecond in order to fit more spikes within
a given unit time. Um, you're just going to end up sending the neurons into block where they're
no longer going to be firing anymore. And so it's sort of, you have to at some point maintain, uh,
that time series in order for them to repolarize, to, to fire for the next action potentials,
if that makes sense. Okay.
Or otherwise, um, to, you could result in seizures as well. Um, you start firing, uh, driving these
groups of neurons at certain frequencies, then, um, you're going to result in seizures. I do a lot
of work with transcranial magnetic stimulation and know if we start, um, getting into higher
frequencies, like, you know, even like 20 Hertz, we run the risk of causing seizures and even
normal individuals. And to kind of get back to something that Nikki had talked about earlier
with TMS, um, we do, you know, brain stimulation, like over motor cortex and someone, I think Micah
mentioned it earlier, a reciprocal. Donna Roberts from Brands on Mars. But in all of those instances,
and I've, you know, I've done it to myself, had other people do it to me many times. I mean,
I always knew that, that, that I was not doing that myself, that there was external stimulation,
to my brain causing those movements or those flashes of light or speech arrest or whatever
it was that was happening. So I think that there's still, even, even with a higher resolution
of a neural link that we're still going to be able to sense that this is not me, that it's not my
brain that's, that's doing this. And I think it kind of gets back also to something that was talked
about earlier is actually decoding signals. And are we really doing that? And ultimately,
in order to do that, to really decode someone's signals, that's going to be that that's equivalent
to being able to, uh, decode consciousness. So even though we might be able to put in
to someone's brain, stimulate the taste area of this tasting like broccoli or the visual area,
this is a green object that I'm eating, it's, it's still this, the sensor, like I think the
famous question is, what's it like to be a bat? You know, you, you, you have this physical properties,
you can hear at higher frequencies, whatever, but you still, but you still don't really know what
it's like to be a bat. And, and it, and so I think it's the same thing that we're not sophisticated,
obviously far off from being sophisticated enough to be able to decode signals to the sense that we
would, you know, that it would be consciousness, um, or that we would mistake it for ourselves.
Very, very well said. I'd like to respond to one to, I have a different take. Um, so I agree with
everything that, uh, this and Nick and Donna said, um, it is, it's absolutely true that there's a limit to,
to, um, how far you can push, uh, neurons. And, uh, and I learned a little bit today from what Nick said,
I didn't know exactly what, what, uh, what the process was there. And, uh, really great to hear
from Donna's experience. My thought is, is on the computational, is sort of like on the computational
side of things. Like, so, so like, if there's, there's a fundamental limit to, to how much you can
stimulate, uh, one neuron at a time. Uh, but, um, but when you're talking about the brain and we have 86
billion neurons, if, if you, so imagine like, imagine you're trying to transfer information
to the brain and, and if you're just doing it through one neuron at a time, then yeah,
you're gonna have some hard limitations on how much information you can transfer. But if you're
able to, if you have a high bandwidth situation and you can talk to, um, a billion neurons at a time,
then, uh, then, you know, I mean, just imagine like, you know, just think about that. Um, you know,
how much, how much information do you need to send, um, uh, per each frame to get, to get,
to get a frame of the movie at a rate, um, that makes sense for that, for that person to see that
movie, right? And, um, so if you can stimulate many, many neurons simultaneously, then basically
like each additional neuron, or, I mean, at some point, this is like the amount of information
you're transferring is multiplying per, per, um, per, uh, per each new unit of, of, of computation.
It's, it's, so you're like, you're speeding things up by doing things, um, by, by map, by, uh, sort of,
what's the term? Massive, uh, parallel computation. So, um, to, uh, to, uh, to add on like what, uh,
Keshev actually asked earlier, uh, I found this mathematical approximation, so I had to
just stop some of my earliest lecture materials, but, uh, you can actually apply the direct delta
function, the discrete direct delta function to essentially model how neurons spike. And, um,
that is, that gives you like some kind of theoretical approximation as to how, um, neurons would, would
actually spike in it in a more discrete manner. Um, to, I, I hope this answers, um, your question,
or at least like gives you an insight on how to use mathematical approximation.
Hey, Keshev, uh, Mika, just, uh, just, uh, just for others in the room, could you, uh, kind of help us,
um, I guess, map out? So, based on what you just, you guys discussed, what, what, are there any upper
limits to the way things are currently being designed? And would that mean that there's certain
applications that, uh, in order for us to, uh, unlock, um, other technological breakthroughs need
to occur? Could you guys maybe just translate that back in layman's terms for everyone in the room?
Um, I guess maybe I can go? So, um, uh, so, to Keshev's point, there, there, there, there's,
there's, there's, there's ultimately, uh, it is true, there's ultimately going to be a bandwidth
and from, uh, limits to how much you can, how much information you can physically send to the human
brain. Uh, that's, that's crazy to think about. I don't know what, what that possible limit could be,
but, but yeah, it, uh, there ultimately has to be a bandwidth rate limit. Um,
but, um, but it's also possible that we will, um, before we, before we, we even get to that,
um, that we could figure out something more fundamental, which is, um, so imagine if your
brain is a, is a network. There's a book called, um, uh, Networking the Brain. Uh, it's, uh, or wait,
let me, let me look, let me look that up. But, uh, the book is, uh, let's see, Networking the Brain.
Uh, maybe, maybe I have the title. No, Networks of the Brain. So, Networks of the Brain, uh, by
Olaf Sporns. He's a neuroscientist. Uh, so this, this book is, uh, is really, uh, really cool. But
imagine the brain is like the internet. Imagine that your, your, your, your, your, your neural
circuits in their, in, in, or your cluster, your, the clusters of neurons in different neural
columns and micro columns are, that they connect to each other across the entire brain, um, like,
a, like a network. And, and, and, uh, so the neuroscientist Olaf Sporns, he, he tries to
use graph theory to, to map those connections and to sort of figure out, um, how they work. And,
and, and, and, uh, some of the things that, um, some of the, the ideas of, of how the brain is
networked, uh, yielded, some of the research yielded, um, uh, something called the, the discovery
of the default brain network, uh, and, um, which is, and another thing, uh, called the rich clubs.
And, and these are like, basically like, um, the macroscopic structures that connect different
brain areas. I guess you can think of that, think of it that way. But, um, but, but what's interesting
is like, well, what is the, what is the specific protocol, uh, the networking protocol for communication
between one, one part of the brain and another part of the brain. And, and, and one way you can,
you can think about this problem is like, um, is this considered networking protocols in general?
With, um, you know, we have our computers use HTTP, right? And so we have, we have a whole bunch of
networking protocols that you may have, you may have heard of. There's, there's, there's one called UDP
or user, user data, uh, protocol. Um, there's one called TCP, uh, which, which, um, TCP is an old one.
And, and, uh, it requires that your, the two computers, uh, do a handshake first before to
make sure that the other, I got to make sure, TCP, TCP, I got to make sure this other computer is
really here before I start sending information. Whereas with UDP, I just throw the information
and I don't care if anyone else is there. So, so, so that kind of, that's what I mean by network
protocol. Does, does a neuron need to know, uh, that another, and it's a neural cluster,
a neural circuit. Does it need to know that another neural circuit's there?
Does it need to do a handshake first before it throws the information or does it just send
the information and, and just like the way UDP works. And so if we can figure out the particulars
of, of the networking protocol, what's being sent, what the, what the handshakes are, if there aren't
handshakes, um, if, um, uh, you know, how, how that, how signals are received, like, these are
important things, but this is important because if we can, um, if we can build artificial neurons
that can talk to that, that take this nerd, this decoded networking protocol and allow a neuron to
talk to an artificial neuron, well, the next step is building artificial cortex. So let's say it's a
person gets a pull through their brain and they survive, but they have missing brain tissue, right?
So we could put some artificial cortex in there that replaces their old, old cortex. And now they have,
uh, uh, their brain isn't, uh, suffering any deficits and it might be working better. But we can go
a step further and say, okay, well, what if we took a completely healthy person and we, we put,
uh, we gave them a, another, uh, cortex. We call it the X, the external cortex, right? We just put
it right on top. It's like a hat. You wear this hat and it's full of artificial brain tissue and it's
networked to your actual brain, but it gives you, um, like another, it gives you like a second neocortex,
right? You just have another layer of brain, but it's artificial and it works the same way as your
original brain. And what's cool about it is that, um, now instead of having like, uh, let's say that
you have, uh, 160,000 thoughts a day and let's say that you, let's say I just made that up, right?
But, but now you have 10 times as many thoughts per second, uh, because of your artificial cortex.
And so that, so for you, one, one, one idea that I had is, well, maybe if your brain is processing
information 10 times faster, uh, what if that means that your experience of time changes? What
if that means that relatively speaking, if you're, if you're able to perceive your world 10 times faster,
that time for you slows down. And, and, and that experience basically means your days are 10 times
longer. Now, before you say, well, that's a bad thing. I don't want, but wait a second. Think of
all the things you could do if you, in one day, if your days were 10 times longer, that is like
getting 10 times more life. Uh, that's like getting 10 times more time on earth. That is,
um, that's the kind of thing that I'm excited about. Basically, Micah, I really freaking, uh,
yes, I'm very happy about you, man. Um, so my main concern was, yeah, initially I was thinking
there is an up about to how much information you can encode in a given timeframe. And if there is,
there's an up about to the usefulness of any system that allows a direct input to the brain
to circumvent the senses and to connect us perhaps to the internet. Now. And so thinking
about that, I started to consider whether there are workarounds and the best workarounds I could
think of was a, we can pre-process the data that is instead of sending what is, you know,
the sense of a banana in your mouth or the taste of banana, we can send the information of how does
the brain react after you've had the planner. Or secondly, there's a case of parallelization
because, uh, I think quite a few, if you mentioned this, I'm forgetting who mentioned this,
that it's possible to train one cortex to function as another form, like the auditory context,
cortex scan process, visual information. And as you know, when we, we can smell something,
taste something, feel something, hear something and see something at the same time.
That means we have five different strands by which we can get information. So say,
if you were to parallelize how fast we can see an image and have all five processing them at the same
time, it would be very interesting to see how much faster humans could perhaps say,
find the difference between two different pictures, which have subtle changes.
And, um, to Micah's point, I find what you said very interesting because I looked up the model,
you suggested the Huxley model, uh, yeah, Hodgkin Huxley model. And it describes things in terms of
limit cycles and attractors, I think. And that is basically the vocabulary views in nonlinear dynamics
and chaos, which by the way, is how it was learned about this stuff. Cause some,
one of my best professors, I love this man is looking into how, you know, the human brain
is essentially a model on synchronization. And we have found that with, uh, oscillators
very often of the electro or optical kind that, uh, these graphical networks or networks of
interconnected things, they have, uh, you can infer the geometry or connectedness of the network
based on how they oscillate and vice versa to a decent extent. And also that the geometrical
setup enabled these oscillations to create a network wide memory. And I'm kind of curious
where that leads in terms of say human memory being a product of network dynamics over time. Yeah.
I think you might be making assumptions though, about the limits to, um, the interface. I mean,
I don't think there's necessarily, I'm just saying, yeah, I don't know. In terms of like the information. Yeah, go ahead.
I was just going to say that, you know, a lot of these physics, uh, the folks from physics, they, they ask,
they're, they're really asking questions that are a little bit disconnected from, from reality,
like completely disconnected from reality. Um, no offense, Keshav, but that's, that's sort of normal. So
there is a potential like ultimate limit. It's just, whether we reach that in this lifetime, I, I don't
know. Maybe not. Can I ask you a quick question to, can I just have one quick question? So I had to leave
for another meeting. Um, I've learned a tremendous amount from Micah and Abe, uh, Keshav. You guys are,
my, my brain is stretching. Um, I, I'm a layman. I just have a quick question that I'd like to take the
pulse of the room, which is basically for all of those of you who are in this industry. I mean,
the original question was Neuralink is a revolutionary or a tragedy. I'd love to hear
your personal breakdown. Like what percentage do you think it's going to be revolutionary? What
percentage do you think is going to be a tragedy? So just like, okay, it's going to be 50, 50,
it's going to be 40, 60. I would just love to hear from your perspective. Cause you guys are deep,
deep, deep, deep, deep into this tech. And for a layman's perspective, I would love to get that
kind of pulse. That was my question. Sam and I'm, I'm done. You're more specific.
So when you, what percentage will it be revolutionary? What percentage do you think
is going to be a tragedy? I mean, I guess I can get tried. I think in terms of the technological,
I think there were, I think we might be approaching a new, which, which is interfaces with
or it's not even about direct. So it's important to like differentiate what is happening here.
When we're talking about like, okay, if you're okay, first of all, there, there are two major
aspects to Neuralink. One is the medical treatment aspect, which is just like, all right, a person who
is paralyzed will be able to like move a cursor on a screen or like move their arm. And then there's
like augment our likes, which it's sort of assumed. And it's like, but that's a really big one.
Differentiate between tragedy and that active here. I, yeah, I do think that's where it's heading.
And I mean, there was a time where, uh, there were multiple subhuman species, I guess you can
say derivative, uh, from apes, uh, uh, Neanderthals and homeo sapiens are just the more commonly known
ones. But, um, I, I feel like we're heading towards a period where, because there's so many, uh, uh,
moral dilemmas and, uh, various, uh, ways that our tribes can organize around, uh, you know,
decisions as relating to Neuralink, but also, uh, genetical engineering and all these advancements
that, uh, we might have like, you know, just like today, like there are, there are tribes
in Papua New Guinea that are completely disconnected from the rest of society. Then you have the Mormons
who try to avoid tech, um, tech in the, you know, I guess the electrical sense and internet
sense. And, but, you know, uh, if you pick up a tool, I mean, uh, at one point when humans
first picked up their first stone tools and made those tools and harness them, that that's,
that was a form of tech. So I feel like there's like a spectrum and we're just going to continue
along that spectrum and maybe have like a period similar to that period where there was various
types of, uh, you know, homo species, uh, not just homo sapiens. And, uh, where we would
basically have some folks who are cyborgs, uh, with Neuralink implantations and, uh, genetic,
uh, genetic, uh, engineering upgrades, um, and, um, some who basically, uh, you know, are opposed
to some of these concepts and might, um, uh, uh, try to avoid it altogether. I do think in
general, it's a good idea to have diversity just as a species. Um, uh, anything could
happen. Um, but, uh, but I think, uh, it's like swimming upstream. It's just going to force
most people to opt into, uh, you know, uh, whatever progress is kind of heading, heading
towards. And ultimately the vast majority of us are going to probably have, like society
is going to have, um, technological implants, uh, if not in the next 20, 30 years, uh, maybe
in the next 50 years, whether we like it or not. Um, but I do think, yeah, it's going
to come with its tragedies, but, uh, I do think we're going to have, we're probably going to
go through a period where there's like many, what might feel like many different types of
species because of our, uh, relationship with tech.
So, um, I'll also agree with, with what Abe said for the most part. So the revolutionary
part for Neuralink for me is the miniaturization, the fact that they are able to miniaturize a device.
That's small and can be, uh, linked to, you know, the brain and their electrode designs
kind of has also asserted some novelty because it can detect on a discrete level of micro columns.
But the, the tragedy part, I think like something that, that really worries me.
And I, I don't know if this is actually mutually shared by everybody that has, uh, gone through
the neural implant is that the implants don't stay long. Like the electrodes actually, like
because the brain is actually highly corrosive environment. It's, uh, it's, um, it has like
rich sodium in it. It's like, you know, an ocean. It is not to say that the, uh, Neuralink
electrodes are metal, but there is also the risk of, you know, electrodes being breaking and the,
the immune system, uh, kind of attacking those electrodes, uh, eventually reducing the signal
strength and also raising some kind of cytokine, uh, storm that, that would cause a severe damage
to the brain. So, uh, I would see the tragedy part in that, but, um, this is my opinion. I don't
know if it's, um, mutually shared by others, uh, other, uh, neuroscientists here in this
group. It's interesting, the regular maintenance aspect of it. I wondered about, um, we're really
worried, uh, I guess the, the conversation is revolutionary or, or regarding the, the bioavailability
of all of these, these implants and the issue that you just brought up regarding maintenance,
I know you had actually studied this, um, and, and actually gone through, um, an experiment
where you implanted something in, in a human being and, and you talked about the scarring
being minimal and it's not fairly, fairly insignificant, um, um, repercussions from,
from the, uh, damage to the brain, similar to, to existing brain surgeon applications. But
I'm wondering about, um, what you just brought up with, if we're constantly upgrading our, our,
these, these, um, additions, I don't want to call them cybernetic additions, but essentially
that's what they are. What does that look like for, um, when they break down? I guess,
I guess to try to form a thought or to summarize this a bit better earlier on, we were talking
about parameters that we can put in place to protect these, these things. And what happens
if you have a mouth or if you're dependent upon this, this, uh, tool to actually utilize
something, a computer or interface with something or not, and the, and the system breaks, what sort
of repercussions did that have? And I was thinking at that time about a security option,
uh, a hardwired kill switch that you could implement if in the event that something did
malfunction, you can simply turn all of these things off. Has there been any discussion about
implementing like an actual, uh, like a physical or, or as best you could get physical kill
switch for these implants to simply cut the contact it would have, um, to the brain if
they are implanted? So, so Neuralink is powered by, by, um, you, you, the power, you have to
stick something, um, behind your ear in order to power Neuralink. It's not, it's not, it's
not, there's no battery inside your brain. Well, that's, so I don't know if they, if they
changed it, but that was what I saw in the original, uh, uh, demo. I don't know if that, maybe
that's not true for the monkeys, but I imagine that they, that, uh, for human beings it would
be there. If the device can't receive power, cause like imagine if you take this home,
you're going to want to, you, you don't want to, you don't want to do surgery to replace
your batteries. So it makes sense that if you're not, if you're not a monkey in a laboratory
that you would, you would have, uh, you would stick a device behind your ear and that's
how you would power the device. And if you, if you needed to take it off, you just, you
know, like in an emergency way, you just pull the device off from behind your ear. And
what it's going to do is remove the power from the device. I agree towards wifi capability
more than hardware though. So I, I would assume anyway that, um, at some point in time they
would, they would try to figure out some sort of wireless capability or wireless functionality
simply from a convenience play. But that's really interesting. My, my, my question, uh, it
came out a bit weird, but it was actually around security, around everything. So we were
talking about like the tragic consequences of having, um, uh, manipulation and it could
even be the sense of, uh, or the case of people sending signals to these transmitters to, um,
um, cause an auditory hallucination or some sort of inter, um, uh, like a, like a, a man
in the middle attack, if you will, inside the brain. And I was thinking like the easiest
solution to, to prevent that in the event that some signals were, were, were getting
stimulated inside the, um, transmitter would just be like a kill switch. Similar to what we
have on, um, high security, uh, computers or cell phones now, where you can simply press
a button and it actually severs the connection between the camera or microphone, et cetera,
and the, uh, the, uh, the computer so that it can't be accessed in the event that it has
been breached by, you know, a significant actor who can maybe turn it on when no one, uh, without
notifying anybody, uh, or using the lights or whatever. So that, that was kind of where my
train of thought was going with it. And then I thought, um, regarding the maintenance
issue, if these things are malfunctioning, it would be, it would make the most sense
to simply just be able to turn it off. But it goes back to, to that question about regular
maintenance and everything. Like what happens if you have a, a, a, a, a significantly, um,
misfiring, uh, something inside your head? That's where I was going with that.
So if I could, if I could throw a wrench in, uh, in the conversation here, it's the idea
that, um, you, that future attacks might be so sophisticated that you don't know that
there's anything wrong. Uh, and so you wouldn't have any, there'd be, you wouldn't have any
reason to take, to, to hit a quick kill switch or to pull the, the power and no one else around
you would have any reason to either. You just think everything is fine.
Before dropping off for, for Mika, Abe, Nick, and anyone else who thinks they could sort of
help, uh, provide some insight around this. Um, so, I mean, Abe, you, you had mentioned,
uh, the, obviously the work that led up to Neuralink, uh, the precursor, uh, um, and, and
your, your involvement in it. Maybe you might be able to comment on this, but like what,
like specifically, cause a lot of folks, when they think, okay, Neuralink commercialized
something, you know, like they might overly simplify, uh, what that means. Uh, you know,
it's not simply, you know, putting up a billboard and saying, Hey, we want, we have something we
want to sell you. There's likely a series of maybe smaller engineering problems, um, or
problems in general, uh, that they have to have gone through and solved, um, to achieve economies
of scale, to achieve, um, you know, some of the efficiencies that they have. Um, could
maybe, uh, uh, some of you guys maybe chime on some of those, uh, recent, uh, things that
they would have had to have solved in the last few years to get to where they are. I know this
sounds, uh, pretty, uh, in some ways ignorant because you've already mentioned that they,
uh, a lot of what they've done has been done in labs today. Um, so what I'm really, uh,
speaking to is, uh, you know, just along the steps of like outside of the core, uh, things
that I'm, I'm convinced they haven't invented anything new. And I've actually, we've actually
had that discussion offline earlier this morning. My question is more around like what are the
specific problems that they, they, did they solve, uh, you, you know, that helped us get
to, uh, the current technology that they have today. Um, I imagine there was at least a handful
of engineering or other types of problems. Could, could anyone comment on that?
I have an answer, but I'll let anyone else who wants to go first, go first. Okay, I guess
it's me. Uh, so Neuralink, um, they created a microsurgery robot. Um, it implants, uh, these,
uh, microfibers with their, each one has, I guess, 16 electrodes. With such precision,
uh, it does like really microscopic imaging, you know, it, it's, uh, it, they're, they're
able to, I have pictures on, if you look at, at the Facebook group, self-aware networks
or the Facebook group, neurophysics, these groups that I, that I've been running for 10,
10 plus, uh, years in, in some instances. Um, there's pictures up there on the cover photos
that show you the, basically, Neuralinks, uh, uh, what it looks like through the camera.
They're basically imaging the blood vessels at really high resolution, and then the robot
is using, uh, a neural networking algorithm to, to figure, to plot, uh, to identify areas
where there aren't blood vessels, uh, so they can pick, uh, areas that are good targets for
surgery. And then, then a neurosurgeon is supposed to approve, to say, I agree with what the machine
is saying, these are excellent targets to implant electrodes. And then the machine has
to do it because, um, because the actual surgery is too, um, the, the needles are too delicate
for human hands to handle, and, and, and the, the, um, it's, the precision required is, is,
is, uh, I believe it's too much for, for the hands of a neurosurgeon. So the robot has
a, if people saw the movie Prometheus, but then the movie was interesting because, um,
it's not the first movie to have this, but it's, it's, it may be the best reference.
The, the, it had, the movie has a, a robot in it. Uh, actually, it has like a capsule machine
that does surgery. So at one point, the character has an alien in, uh, her stomach or, or something.
I might be, I might be messing up the story, but she has something she wants to get out of
her stomach, and she goes to the surgery machine, and, um, and, and it's only calibrated
for, for, for men. So she's really upset about that, but she says, okay, I want to remove
this thing from my stomach, and then the computer does the surgery automatically. So the idea
that we have, that in the future we will have machines that do surgeries, like, like a vending
machine that does a surgery, that, that's, that's sort of like, uh, a big component to mass
producing, uh, medicine in a hundred, you know, in the next hundred years is, is basically
to, to, to have the precision of surgery, uh, so well done by a computer that is better
than a human being could do it, and then you could eventually put it in a vending machine
and, um, and mass produce, uh, surgeries. Uh, so that is an incredible innovation.
Can I, can I chime in? Can I make a comment? My, uh, my name is George Zavala. I'm a neurologist,
so obviously I don't do research in this area, but I, I am familiar with, um, technologies
that are currently being used for clinical practices, and, and these modalities have been
standardized and tested, and they're pretty safe. So, well, uh, what you're telling me
with the, uh, with the grids placed, grids of electrodes placed on the surface of the
brain, this is something that is done currently, and, and you are right, there are several types
of machines or robots, if you want to call them, that help people not only to, uh, place
these grids in the, uh, in the surface of the brain, but also, uh, to, uh, find out where
you're going to put them. So, this is used mostly for people who have complex type of epilepsies,
and, um, where medication is not working, and, uh, you want to localize where the seizures
are being triggered, so you can maybe remove them through surgery. And, uh, and these is,
this technology is broadly used, obviously, not in, in countryside hospitals, but in the
major centers where you have a comprehensive epilepsy center. This type of procedure is,
um, performed, and I am assuming that, uh, there is some type of collaboration between,
uh, Neuralink and companies that already, uh, do these, uh, these devices, because it would
be silly for one not to, um, uh, use this technology that's already available and try to reinvent the
wheel. So, I'm pretty sure that there will be some collaboration there. The other aspect
that I think it's really interesting to note is that there is another company that produces
this thing called stentrode. Probably some of you in the audience have been, uh, have seen
this before and are familiar with it, but, uh, this is a, uh, technology where the electrodes,
they're not being placed by neurosurgery, but they are being, I don't think they use monkeys,
I think they used mostly chips, but, uh, they're starting to do this in humans as well. And the goal
of this technology, obviously very different from Neuralink, but these electrodes are being placed
in the motor cortex. So the part of the brain that controls movement, and they're using these, uh,
electrodes to control artificial limbs in people who have been, um, uh, victims of amputations or war,
uh, uh, mutilations and so forth. There is an older technology that's already readily available,
uh, but that requires neurosurgery, but stentrode is doing a similar thing minimally invasively. So
they just go the same way people have, uh, a catheter put in their hearts for when they have a heart
attack. It's a similar concept where, uh, the, uh, the stent goes into a blood vessel in the brain,
and that's how the process starts. And obviously everything, uh, transmitted wirelessly. Now,
just taking a step back, uh, when, uh, I think it was, uh, Matt who was talking about malfunctioning,
obviously we do have a lot of brain devices that are available. Uh, and don't know if you guys know
anything about deep brain stimulation, but this is also a technology that's used for modulating brain
activity, not for cognitive functions like Neuralink is planning to do, but for people, for example,
who have intractable Parkinson's disease, or also people with epilepsy, uh, people with various
types of neurological conditions. So these, um, devices, they're very safe. They have, uh, uh,
they are made of material that are, um, they don't, do not cause any inflammatory reactions to the, uh,
to the brain tissue, as was mentioned before. And I'm assuming that this is the type of material
that also Neuralink is planning to use, because again, we don't, you don't want to reinvent the wheel
if there's something that's already very, uh, very safe to use. Now, these, uh, these devices,
deep brain stimulation, they are probably the ones that are most used in the medical, in the neurological,
uh, community. And, uh, what's interesting about these devices is that, uh, once implanted very deep
in the brain, there is a wire that comes, uh, uh, externally and under the skin, out of the skull and
under the skin and ends in your chest, under the skin, in your chest. And through there, so there
is a battery there that operates the machine or the device, but also through there wirelessly with a,
with a, uh, something like a, uh, a tablet or your iPhone, you can control the amount of stimulation or,
or inhibition that you want to your, uh, to the structure of the brain that's causing trouble.
So all these technologies are there, obviously not for the, for the, um, for the purpose that Neuralink is
using, but, um, things that are safe, things that are do, uh, can be, uh, used quite, uh, uh, widely
and, and it's very doable. So I, I want to believe that these guys from Neuralink are talking to people
who are manufacturers who are doing these, um, these known devices. Just finally, the main problem when
these things stop functioning is that most of the studies that are done, for example, one day in your
life, you will need to have an MRI scan of your brain. And as you know, an MRI is a giant magnet.
So a lot of these devices, they are MRI compatible, provided that the battery is functioning. Now,
uh, we probably assume that if the battery is flat, it is going to be safe as well. But all the studies
were done with patients with, uh, full batteries. So there's always a problem that if someone has a
device like this and they are needing an MRI for other reasons, and the battery is flat, nobody's going
to go ahead and do it. And once you have a device implanted in your brain, there is scar tissue that
forms around it and get a, getting rid of it is going to be very difficult, if not impossible,
without causing any damage. Thank you. Okay. Can I, I'd like, I'd love to respond to, um, with George.
Did you say George or Jorge? Whatever, whatever you prefer, man. Call me anything.
I'd love for you to, Abe and Mika, I'd love for you to respond to George, but just one question,
like, like, the applications that George has, Abe, Mika, like, are you guys very familiar with some
of the technology he's referring to? Yeah. Because I have to hop off, but thanks so much to the mods,
and, uh, have a great night. Take care, Abe.
While I'm heading out, just wanted to say thanks, Don. This has been fun.
Okay, thank, thank you. Take care, Kesha. Uh, so, in fact, in fact, um, uh, if any, um,
maybe I should pause. If anyone else is, is leaving, go ahead and say so. I'll just be,
I'll be quiet for a second. Sounds good. Um, so, um, in fact, I have written about this intro,
and I interviewed, uh, Dr. David Petrino, a PhD at Mount Sinai. Tom Oxley. You, okay.
Uh, and, uh, right, so Tom Oxley, uh, he's, uh, he's an instructor and a director of innovation
strategy, uh, for the Department of Neurosurgery at Mount Sinai. Um, and, uh, he specializes in
vascular neurosurgery and interventional neurology. That my, my article, I'm sorry,
my article, um, is, uh, if you go to sdgn.io, um, and you type in the word stentrode,
s-t-e-n-t-r-o-d-e, uh, you can read the, read the article and includes the, includes a recorded
audio dialogue that I did, uh, with stentrode. So stentrode, uh, is, it does not require brain
surgery. It's amazing. So you can inject it, you can inject it into your arm, uh, and then you push
it up through the, through the blood vessels, uh, into the, um, into, uh, you know, in, into the brain,
but, but in the blood vessel, uh, somewhere above the, the motor, motor cortex, as has already been
said. And then what happens as you, uh, withdraw the, uh, the device that, that, the, what happens is
the, the stent, after it reaches where it's supposed to be and you, and you withdraw your, your
implantation device, what happens is the stentrode expands inside the vein so that basically it, it,
it holds, it's, um, it basically presses outward against the walls of the vein. So it, it's, it
basically, uh, it, it allows, uh, the maximum amount of, of flow through, through the vein. It's
not going to block the vein at all. And, uh, and then the electrodes are basically in the wall of
that, of that vein that's above your, your motor cortex, cortex.
Just quickly there, Micah, this is the same technology that's used for unblocking a blood
vessel that caused a myocardial infection, a heart attack, for example, or if someone has
a big stroke. Keep going. Um, wow. I, so I didn't know that, but that makes perfect sense.
But, but it's like, yeah, it's like they did that and then they just like, Hey, not only
were we going to put this in someone's brain to put, put open their blood vessels, but we
is that, so this is fascinating cause you're also, you're heavily in this and you're, uh,
learning from George's as you speak as well, which is really fascinating for me. Am I hearing
this correctly, Micah? So Micah. Yeah. And George, like, is this, is the application was
initially used for, as you said, to unblock blood vessels and other sort of applications
like that. And these guys have flipped it and used it to now insert wires. Is that, is that
correct? Can I tell you the story? Yeah. How this started? Because I was, I was there
when it started. So Tom Oxley was a neurology trainee in the hospital where I used to work
in 2011 and always a very fascinating and clever guy. So this is a technology that back then
for neurology was being used for retrieving clots that were, that were causing strokes
in big blood vessels in the brain. Uh, and this is a technology that's been available probably
since 2014 or 15, I would say, no, no, sorry, 20, 2005, 2006, but it really became a, uh, a hype
in the, in the early, late 2000 of first decade of the, uh, 2000s and early 2010s. And, uh, and
this technology now is amazing. So this is pretty much a stint, which is a device that goes flat
into a clots, opens up. And then when it opens up, clots gets attached to it and they pull it out.
Very sophisticated way of, of, of, of doing this. So Tom was, uh, he, uh, he actually was a military
doctor before he became a neurology trainee. And, uh, he took a year off and he went to the U S and,
and one day he sent an email to the guy who was the, uh, one of the directors of DARPA.
Uh, and, uh, and somehow he got a meeting to, to see this guy and he said, now I have to come
with a clever idea. And he had this, he tells me he had this light bulb moment and he thought,
why don't we do this? I'll tell this guy that we're going to use this for putting a recording
electrodes, trying to maybe in the future, uh, use this technology for, um, for, um, you, uh, moving
artificial limbs. So it was pretty much a combination of two technologies that were already available.
The unblocking of the blood vessels plus the, uh, recording electrodes that I used for monitoring
people with epilepsy. Keep going, Micah. Um, I, I don't know that I have a whole lot more to say,
except, um, I just, I just, I shared the story. I don't know if you wanted to add to that or,
but this is, so what exactly did Neuralink, where did they step into this story? Like,
well, this technology existed. Um, I know when, uh, Dave was here earlier, like they were talking
about a different, uh, type of technology that was being inserted in the brain. He had a picture
of it on his profile earlier. And so what, what exactly did Neuralink do with these things,
Micah? Um, Hey, sorry. I, uh, I was having a little trouble with my mute button there.
Uh, so, um, uh, I, what I want to say, first of all, is if you, if you click on my profile right
now and visit my Twitter and, uh, look at the, the latest thing that I shared, not my pinned post,
but the latest post that I just shared, um, that is a link to the story about Centrode. Uh,
so that will be, uh, basically the best, uh, starting point is, is to re, is to read that
story and, and listen to the interview, uh, that I recorded. Um, but, uh, so what was also
brought, so Centrode is, um, you know, we, so I, I, I'm kind of like, I'm, I'm a little
bit at the, at the end of, of what I can say about Centrode for right now. There's, there's
more in the article, but I, I sort of like, want to get back to, to DBS and Neuralink.
That's where my, this is right at the moment. Maybe, maybe we can go back to Centrode later,
but, um, so, so, so, so, so, um, when Neuralink first. Mike, can I ask you one quick question
before you leave, um, Centrode? Is it, just for clarification, arteries or veins?
So the, uh, the, the stents goes, the, the, the usual, the original stents designed for retrieving
clots was going into arteries, but these arteries, uh, they are of a certain caliber and the stents
that had the electrodes were too big for it. So for stentrode, the technology is slightly
different because it's going into big veins that you have in the surface of, of your brain. So
one of them goes from right in the midline, from front to back, uh, on top of your, uh, of your brain
right below, uh, underneath your skull. And then there are two other ones that go, uh, at the back
of your head to the, so coming from the midline to the, uh, to the sides and then down your neck.
So, so, so what I, what I heard, uh, which is, um, not, not going to be as accurate as what,
what, what he, what, what just said, but what I, the, the, the story, uh, that I wrote down was
that, um, the stentrode is inserted via a catheter into the jugular vein and then maneuvered into the
brain via, via the vasculature. And there's no, there's no, um, basically the, see, I just wrote
that there's no need to drill through the human skull. The sensors are built into a self-expanding
stent that expands into the wall of the blood vessel. Um, and in time, it's expected that cells
will grow over the sensors and incorporate them into the tissue. And then the signals would be,
uh, transported out of the brain, uh, through the vein to a unit implanted in the chest. And from
there, the signals from the brain would be sent to the computer. I don't know if that's still up to
date. Um, but, but stentrode records brain activity in a way that's, I guess, similar to EEG or, or ECOG,
um, which are like surgically implanted electrodes. Uh, and, but the advantage of being inside the
skull is, uh, is, is massive. I mean, that's just basically the field of ECOG research, right?
Um, and, uh, yeah, I'm just skimming, skimming my article, see if there's anything other here that
I wrote down. Um, but yeah, so, so check out, check out, you can check out, uh, pain, uh, pain
medication reimagined was, was, it was something that, uh, so David Petrina was talking about the,
the, uh, he's a PhD, but he was talking about, uh, the work by, um, you said his name earlier,
uh, by, by Tom, by Tom Oxley, who, Tom J. Oxley, MD and PhD, um, part of the cerebral,
cerebral vascular center. Uh, yeah, anyway. So, I mean, I, I think that it's just like, um, I think that,
but, you know, uh, so a lot of people, this is, this is, um, interesting because a lot of people
who have been studying, uh, COVID-19 and effects on the brain have been like, well, we don't get
how COVID-19 could get into the brain. We don't understand why, why it's affecting the brain.
Like, what, what is it, how is it, where are the, um, are the, um, the ACE2 receptors? And, uh, well,
I guess maybe it was overlooked, but the brain has a lot of blood vessels and it has a lymphatic
system. And throughout the blood vessels and the lymphatic system, there's, there's, there's a,
there's a lot of, um, uh, with the, you know, there's a lot of cells that have what's called
an endothelial lining and that endothelial lining has ACE2 receptors. So, um, I, I don't know why it's,
it's, it's, it's a big mystery, but, but, but, um, but yeah, it's, it seems pretty obvious.
It's the den to everyone. Uh, always a, uh, pleasure co-hosting our disruptors den sessions.
We had a lot of new faces today and lots of new speakers. Um, a lot of our topics, including
this one today are sponsored by audience members like you all. So if you're interested
in contributing or have any feedback, please reach out to myself or Ravi. We're always looking
to expand our group of disruptors. Um, we're building this great platform for you to share
your thoughts and introduce yourself, what you're working on and also finding like-minded
amazing people that you can connect with, um, in more depth offline. And I observed a lot
of connections, uh, being made live as the discussion was running. So that's amazing. We do do this,
uh, every Monday to Saturday, 9 to 10 PM Eastern time. So everyone in the room right now, uh, hit
that disruptors den icon at the top and hit that poll button, bring a friend, uh, invite people
that you think would be a great addition. And yeah, let's continue this discussion. Sorry
for interrupting there, but yeah. Sounds great. Um, thank you, Mara. Is that right?
Yeah, that's how you say it. Um, well, uh, I wanted to add that, uh, so, so, uh, George
also brought up DBS and, um, uh, so when Neuralink was first announced, they made a lot of comparisons
to DBS and they pointed out that their, their device is much smaller. Uh, DBS, um, the, the implantation
of DBS can, can rupture a lot of, of, of micro, uh, micro vessels, micro blood vessels. Uh,
that's part of, it's part of the, I believe that's part of the reason that there's a, there's
a long-term sort of scarring issue. The device is really big compared to Neuralink. The, the
idea here is that Neuralink is going to cause far less scarring that the, you know, um, I
don't know that the materials are that different, but there's far less of them. Uh, there has
been some research, which was, uh, sort of pre-Neuralink, which suggested that if you make
your, if you make the devices you put inside the head, uh, made out of, of graphite, that,
um, the immune system would not react to them. And, and, um, there was also a test. So Neuralink
came out with, uh, one of their announcements was that they had implanted the devices into pigs
and the pigs are, um, you know, they like to bang their heads together. They're little,
they're little rock stars. And, uh, so far the, the, um, the, uh, the, the devices were
not breaking. So I guess, I guess they're thin enough and small enough and light enough that
the bank, the pig could bang the head, uh, its own head against other pigs' heads. And,
and it wasn't causing the, um, these really light and small hairs to, uh, which contain,
which contain the electrodes to, to break. And that's, that's interesting because, you know,
the brain is basically, um, like it's really soft. It's, it's almost like, like jelly or butter.
It's, uh, it's painful to think about how, how delicate the brain is, but, um, but yeah, so the,
if you put something, you know, heavy in there, then, and, and it gets knocked around and then
the potential for scarring, like with the DBS, big DBS system seems pretty like a big deal. And just
putting it in there is probably could cause bleeding and, and, uh, other problems. In fact,
like the first, first 10 years of, of, um, of, of brain surgeries, brain surgeries in history of,
of medical neuroscience. And this is a true story. The first 10 years of brain surgery,
not a single patient survived because they couldn't figure out for the long, for 10 years,
they couldn't figure out how to cut into the brain, uh, without killing the patient because
there are literally blood vessels everywhere, everywhere. It was extremely, it took 10 years for
humanity to figure that out. So Micah, on that, on that point, I mean, it sounds like there's a bit
of material engineering, uh, work that was done to, uh, in terms of the, the advancements they did
with the, the, the actual material, but you, how did they, uh, advance the, uh, the technology so that
they can minimize scarring and cutting into blood vessels? Was that a bit of software engineering,
like in terms of, uh, you know, analyzing the topology of the brain before they did the insertions?
What, what, what sort of stuff was going on there in terms of, uh, advancements? I don't know if George
or Micah, whoever can answer that. So without working there, I can just answer that in a very
general way. Um, that, um, very, very fast, basically, um, to make surgeries better and less,
less traumatic on a patient, you have to make them less, uh, less invasive, less impactful. You have to
make the, the surgical, uh, the surgery has to be small. The cutting area has to be smaller. You,
you, you want to stick as little as possible in, into the human body or human brain. And you want
to, uh, you want to do really good imaging ahead of time to figure out exactly where you need to cut
and what you need to cut. And within, so in, in a sense, the microsurgery robot that Neuralink,
uh, built does two things. One is it does really high resolution microscopic imaging of the brain area
where it's going to be implanted. Um, so you can get, you can get a look at the blood vessels,
but then too, it also like figures out where the, the, the, you know, what areas, uh, uh, are the
best for implanting the electrodes and, and then it implants them. So, um, that, that, that's basically
the general idea. And then of course, you know, there's a long history of materials design and,
and, um, and trying to, trying to find stuff that's the least offensive to human beings. I think
that answers the question without specifics. Yeah. I mean, this, this, this is incredible. This has
been really, really helpful, uh, uh, folks who, some of you, the folks who were contributing
left, but, you know, I initially walked, uh, into this whole, like when I started observing
Neuralink, I, uh, it looked, uh, at, you know, uh, in the realm of R and D and I had no idea
that this, there's this been this much, uh, prior work that, um, has led to, led up to their,
their, their, their, I guess, contribution to the overall, uh, um, you know, advancement
of this, of this stuff. Um, you know, this, this is, you know, if you look at Tesla, like
there was an electric car, uh, that Elon had acquired. Um, and obviously there was a lot
of work that had to be done to, to get it to where it is today. But, um, the concept of,
you know, the strategy and the concept of, uh, you know, starting with a luxury car, working
your way towards, uh, uh, an economically feasible one that was, uh, baked into the
initial vision, I think of Tesla and Nosfer started. And, um, in many ways, like when
I, when I'm listening to the various domains and the, and the prior applications that
have already been tested, including the monkey example, including now the surgery
that George is talking about here and you, Micah, it's like, uh, yeah, it's, it's, it's,
it's incredible to me that, uh, a lot of, a lot of people don't know just how much work
has led up to this moment. Um, and maybe partly due to Elon's popularity and, and, uh, uh, you
know, recognition, but, uh, and also their contribution to commercializing this. Uh, I
don't want to under, um, you know, um, value that, but it's, it's, I'm just shocked at how
much prior work and invention and application and, uh, even understanding these use cases
had already, um, existed and had been discussed before Neuralink showed up to the party. And,
um, you know, it's really impressive stuff, but, uh, Jess is now blown away, but all the
work that you guys are, uh, have been involved in. And, uh, thank you for, for, you know,
sharing all this.
So I, I think, um, there's, there's, there could be a big perspective shift for everybody.
If you, if you just think of this, this is, this is not Elon Musk's company. Just, just
imagine that he had, he, he is, he's the guy who's funding it. That, and now the reason
I said that, I say that because what, what, what I'm getting at is like, um, you know, there,
there was someone who basically, uh, you know, it, gosh, I forget his name, but there was
a neuroscientist who was the first to measure EEG signals. And he, he thought that, you know,
basically he read this letter, um, where he heard, uh, that a woman had written about,
um, like her boyfriend, she had the stream that her boyfriend fell off a horse. And
at the same time she wrote the letter, her boyfriend had fallen off the horse. And so
he thought, well, well, maybe our brains, uh, maybe there's, maybe it's telepathy. So he
um, he wanted to measure, uh, electrical signals in the brain to see if, if, um, he wanted to
detect them and analyze them. And he did. Uh, and he was, he was, uh, basically the, like
the grandfather of EEG, um, because he wanted to see if, if telepathy was real. And, uh, it
turns out that he also, he did, he did really good work and it turns out that he was able
to, to, um, to his own disappointment, realize that, that EEG signals don't travel far enough.
There's not enough power in them that they could leave one person's brain and, and, uh,
and travel to another person's brain through the air. It's just not, it's not, uh, it wouldn't
work that way. Um, but you know that, so, but in a real sense, EEG, um, and, uh, also, you
know, just measuring electrodes. There's another guy who was, was famous for, uh, he, he was a
famous, he was a guy who, um, a neuroscientist who came up with, uh, uh, I'm, I'm sorry, I'm
not being very good with names tonight, but, but he basically, uh, was implanting electrodes
into cats, into their brains. And he figured out that, uh, neural columns, he was the first
guy to say, well, neural columns have a function. And, and at some, at some point, the idea that
different parts of your brain had different functions, what was unheard of and in human
history. And so he's like, yeah, so your neural column does something special. It's
different from what the rest of your brain is doing. And it's organized, it's somehow
it's organizing, uh, what, uh, you know, the cat's reaction to, um, to, uh, being petted
or something like that, right? And, uh, it's organizing this, this, uh, this mental activity.
And, um, so, so, so that, so, so we, so then we had lots of, you know, we had many decades
of people sticking electrodes in cats and mice and, and rodents and monkeys and human
beings. Uh, and, and we had the, of course, ECOG and we had, uh, the Utah array, which was
mentioned earlier and DBS and, um, and, uh, so, so all of these technologies. So if you
look at who was hired by Neuralink, you can see that, that one, one of the, one of the
guy, one of the guys who was hired was, uh, DJ CO and he was the co-founder of Neural
Dust and Neural Dust. I wrote about Neural Dust too. I just remembered. Uh, so you could,
you could look up Neural Dust on my website, uh, that I linked earlier, but, um, but Neural
Dust, I wrote about the other co-founder. So I didn't know, I didn't, um, I missed the,
I, I guess I need to write another one about DJ, uh, CO, but, uh, I wrote about his co-founder
and then, uh, this was before Neuralink, uh, uh, sort of like review, had their big reveal
and, and shared who was working there. But if you look at the people who worked there
and there's been a lot of turnover, but the people who've worked over time. So I think
it was George that brought up, he says, I hope that something that like, I hope that, that
they're talking to all the companies and, and the scientists who have worked with DBS and,
and, and, uh, and, and Stentrode. And, and, uh, the thing is, uh, for a fact, many of the
world's leading scientists, uh, are working at, at Neuralink and have been working at Neuralink
or previously worked at Neuralink. I mean, it's been a long, Neuralink has been around for years
and, and people have come and gone, but, um, uh, in great numbers. But the thing is like,
there is a, uh, a vast amount of communication happening between the, um, the leading minds
in, in, in neuroscience, um, for, in neurology and, and, you know, cognitive, uh, cognitive
neuroscience. And it, and, and it's just, um, so yeah, so to, to, to George's like question,
this, it's not, it's not only, yes, they ought to be doing it. Yes, they have for a fact been
talking to, you know, the leading minds and the leading, the leading companies. This has been
happening. They, these people have been working at Neuralink. So that's just what I wanted to
say. I, uh, I think it's, uh, it's, can you guys hear me? Um, I think it's worth mentioning
as well that, uh, everything that you implant, uh, in the body needs to go through approval
from regulatory companies, uh, not companies, entities like the FDA in the US, TGA here in
Australia. So every country has that. So I'm pretty sure that, uh, if you want to take shortcuts
and make your, uh, your implants, uh, work quicker, uh, you, you probably use substances
that have been approved to, to be implanted rather than, again, trying to invent something
that might or might not work. I can ask, Jorge, you mentioned something about the scarring
regarding implants, um, being a factor, uh, earlier on. I think we had some, some previous
discussion around that earlier this evening and people were talking about how it's not going
to be so critical. Um, but how, how, in your opinion, um, as a neuros, uh, neurosurgeon,
like how critical is it or what is the impact? And is there a difference between, um, the age
of a patient based on their neuroplasticity and their ability to recover from that scarring?
So obviously, um, the, uh, the age is very important. The younger, the person, the more
likely that, uh, there will be effective and less damaging regeneration of, uh, of brain
tissue. That's no doubt. Obviously, once, uh, once you reach a certain age, there is virtually
no, no chance that someone can have a, uh, 100% guarantee that their brain tissue is going
to regenerate. So the, uh, what happens is that when you put in a device like this, I think
I might, I might have, um, uh, misused the terms scar tissue. What happens is that some tissue
from the body organizes around the structure. So for example, the stents that we were mentioned
before, stentroids and cardiac stents and, uh, kidney stents and everything has stents in
the body these days. Once you put inside a blood vessel, there is a lining inside the
blood vessel that's called endothelium, which is a lining of cells. So this endothelium
grows on top of the stent and the stent gets incorporated into the vessel. So if you, if
you, if you are small enough to go into the vessel or you have a camera that's small enough
and go into the vessel and you, and you look at the vessel from inside, you're not going
to see the stents because it's been endothelized as we say. So what's going to happen with these,
uh, with these devices is that probably there will be tissue that will grow on top of it
and make it part of the body. So you're not going to be able to see the, uh, the device
in its entirety. But the problem is that as someone was mentioning before, if you want
for some reason, get it out of your body, then you're going to create a lot of problems.
It's like, uh, it's easy for you to build something with concrete and put it on the floor
or on the ground. And, but when you remove it, a lot of dirt comes out with it. So the
same concept would, would happen in the brain, but the brain is so delicate that any, any
additional or any damage that you do to your brain tissue, it's going to cause trouble.
And particularly with these devices like Neuralink, for example, you're, you're stimulating
the, probably the most important part of your brain, which is you, right? Your intelligence,
your, your sense of, uh, of self being. And, and, and, and I don't think that, um, that
this is the type of device that will be able to come in and out very easily. So once it's
implanted, well, prior to implanting, the decision needs to be made very carefully. Uh, and the
person is to be aware that for whatever reason, this should stay with them forever. Is that
clear?
Yeah. Very, very, thank you very much for that.
But you mentioned it.
I'm sorry. One thing to mention too, is that, um, you know, I'm a neuroradiologist and I, and
I see what it looks like after these, after electrodes have been implanted and, and also
for epilepsy surgery, trying to figure out where the seizure focuses, um, electrodes get
implanted for like, you know, just a few days at a time and then taken out. But, but these
electrodes and, and also deep brain stimulation electrodes, and I don't know the numbers, but
are much larger than the type of electrodes that we're talking about here with Neuralink
being the size of a human hair. I mean, the electrodes that are put in for epilepsy surgery
mapping, I'm always amazed when I see these and they go, you know, going all the way across
the brain and then they're taken out and, and, and don't leave scarring. So, um, I can't
imagine. Can I, can I interrupt you? The reason why there is no scarring is because they're
there only for a limited time, right? So the, uh, when you do these monitorings, uh, for
epilepsy, you keep the, uh, the grids for what? Two weeks, three weeks. Uh, and, uh, and
then the pay, and then it comes out. No, uh, because these patients, when they are being
monitored for epilepsy surgery, they need to stay in hospital. You can't take, uh, the grids
with you home, be monitored home and then come back. So they usually, um, in hospital for a
certain number of days so they can have, uh, so they can have a seizure captured and then by
or the, the most, the biggest number of seizures captured. So you can be sure that they are all coming
from that, uh, full, full side, and then you can act on it through surgery or whatever method
you're using. Right. No, and I didn't mean to imply that, that the electrodes do come out within a few
days, but still you've sliced, you've sliced through brain, you've displaced brain as these
electrodes are being, um, placed. So you're displacing brain tissue and they're much larger than the,
than the electrodes that Neuralink is going to use the size of a human hair. I find it really
fascinating. I had, um, father was a, uh, like a type personality, high functioning individual,
like a director of cybersecurity for, he was in his mid fifties and suffered. Um, he started,
uh, having some, some symptoms, uh, regarding his motor control and he went in and he was diagnosed
with cavernoma and had to have some, some fairly significant brain surgery to remove some, some
malignant tumors. So they were non-cancerous, but it was, uh, it was a, you know, significant impact,
um, primarily related to his motor. That was back in, and he, it took him years, but it, with his
older age, there was a significant impact. Now his intelligence wasn't, didn't seem to be impacted,
thank goodness. So he's, he's cognitive, but it's, it's the motor control. And when you mentioned,
I guess when I was kind of probing around, asking for these plants, it was more or less like what
happens when a person who's younger gets one. And like you said, uh, Jorge, when you, um, they might
have to live with this forever happens if the technology, you know, sort of leap from the
road. Um, you know, what under, would you have to take the chance of removing it and risking
to have an answer to this? Uh, and, uh, and I'm pretty sure that our radiologist colleague
also knows all about this as well, but in medicine, everything that's prosthetic or foreign
to the body does not last forever. So, and just to give you an example, for example, so
if you have severe arthritis of your hip and you need a new hip, we try to delay the operation for
as long as possible, because we'd know that even the most modern prosthesis, they will last for what
15 years or so in your body. And then you have to change it again. So, um, um, I, I am. And also
with, um, if someone has an aneurysm, which is a, uh, like a blister on the side of a blood vessel and
it bursts into the brain, they can have either coils or, um, or, uh, neurosurgical clips apply to
these, uh, to, to these aneurysms. And we do know that the clips, they only last, obviously the
coils, they, they do last for longer, but they are much smaller structures. So it's going to be
very interesting to see, um, how long and only time will tell, um, how long neural link is going to
stay in the brain without causing any trouble. And, uh, and also what certain age would be the age
where you can, will be able to implement these, uh, devices into one's brain, because I'm pretty
sure that I wouldn't want a adolescent or a teenager to have this implanted to their brains, because we
don't know what's going to happen in the longer term. And not only that our brain, obviously all the
cells are there when we are born, but the connections, they keep on, uh, happening up until you are
in your mid twenties. And some structures of the brain, they only finish maturing when you are in
your mid thirties. So you don't want to get anything that's going to interfere with this
process. If you don't know that this is going, you don't know how it's going to be, uh, behave.
If this is giving you a benefits and giving you better connections, yes, but how are you going to
be able to prove thus far? It's probably impossible, isn't it? Well, as a neurologist, I'd have to ask,
right? If you had a, you know, the original use case of neural link is for, if you had
an adolescent patient significantly benefit from a, from a life, uh, is that what you're saying?
Whatever the, whatever the debt area of the compensates, that lack of function by implementing
something that's artificial and is going to work. I don't see any harm in that. I think that this is,
a medicine is all about risks and benefits. Every medication, every vaccine, every procedure has
risks and benefits. So I think that in this sort of situation where you have even someone with, uh,
cerebral palsy, someone who has a, uh, a damage to their brain tissue because of lack of oxygen when
they're being delivered by their moms. Uh, if someone is, uh, has paralysis in one side of the
body because of that, then there's nothing to lose. I totally agree with, uh, with the concept of
implementing things to make their lives better and have a near normal life. But if it's something just
to enhance functions that you have now and that are considered normal, I think still a little bit
risky, I think, to be honest with you, I think that in the future we'll have that opportunity, but I think
that we are very far from that, that, uh, that time we'll have to prove in people with brain damage that
this works prior to, uh, using this as a, uh, a brain enhancer. Uh, that's my point of view.
And, and in fact, in the situation that you mentioned that if you, if, if someone was paralyzed
and, um, and there wasn't this artificial stimulation replacement, then what would happen
anyway is that brain tissue would wear away. It's called wallerian degeneration, um, because it's not
getting stimulated. So, and in fact, you would be enhancing, um, retaining that tissue. And I think
the thing that happened perhaps with your father is that when the surgery was done, they could,
that there was perhaps some, uh, because of how deep the cavernoma was, there could have been
injury to the white matter tracts in the motor area. And, and perhaps that's what's causing, um,
um, some of his weakness. But in the case of neural leak, again, the, the electrodes are going to be
so small, the size of a human hair that they would not, um, disrupt the white matter tracts.
And I think what Horry was saying earlier was whenever it is time to upgrade in 10 to 15 years,
you're just going to have to leave the ones that are already there, there and get new ones
in addition.
All right. So I want to, I want to, I want to, I want to share something that I want to share
two points. One is that, um, you know, so, so the white matter tracts, it, that's, um, that's,
there's two things happening. One is you have oligodendrocytes that are covering,
those are cells that, those cells are covering, uh, the axons or the body of, of neurons that
are, um, and, um, and those run, those run great lengths. They, in some cases they might
run from your head to your toes, right? They're really long. But, but what's interesting is
that, um, the, um, the, the oligodendrite cells or, or the, um, that, that the white, uh, waxy
stuff that is covering the neurons, it's not like it's just, it's not like one, uh, oligodendrite
in one neuron. It's like, they're going every different direction and you might have, you
might have a thousand different, uh, oligodendrites touching one neuron. It's, it's, it's, uh, it's
a little bit chaotic. And so going back to, uh, George's point, it's like, imagine, so imagine
you've got a wire in there that's about the length of a human hair. And then what happens
is a cell, the cell just randomly grows around that wire. Now, now a cell, imagine the cell
is like a bubble. It's basically a lipid bubble or a bubble of fat. It's got, it, it really
matters if that bubble is, is, uh, has any punctures or holes in it. That, that, that's
a big issue for that cell. Um, and it's, so if you just, if you, if it grows around
the wire and you just pull the wire out, no matter how small that wire is, now there's
a puncture in that bubble. So you see the problem there? And, um, so if you look at, in the case
of, um, you know, what is, what is SARS-CoV-2 doing to the body? Well, it's, it's, it's just,
it's, the virus is invading, uh, and it's causing these cells to burst. And, and I, and
maybe, uh, just having, just, just pulling that, that's the hair out of the cell might,
might cause it to burst. I don't, I don't know exactly, but that's just the picture
I wanted to paint for you. Another thing I think Travis did that he, he believed that,
uh, maybe we, uh, we're moving towards a world where everybody has these impossible
devices. Um, my, my thought is a little bit different. In 20 years, I think that we'll
have, um, basically, uh, uh, we'll have optical technology that will, uh, be integrated
with, uh, basically like, like open water technology, but it'll be laser fast. It'll
be like something like laser optical holographic technology that's integrated with ultrasound
and, and microwaves. And, uh, it will non-invasively do, do effectively the same thing that Neuralink
does without surgery outside your brain. You don't have to worry about it. Um, yeah.
My comments, I have two comments about this. Number one, I agree, I agree with you. And
I think that this is probably the ideal way of this happening. Uh, and I, I don't know
whether you guys are familiar with the technology called transcranial magnetic stimulation, but
this is a technology that through, through waves, radio frequency, uh, you can stimulate
certain parts of the brain and, and, uh, and, uh, it's something that's being used for
actually treatment of, uh, of depression. Uh, because we do know some of the centers how,
uh, that cause or are responsible with the, uh, physiopathology of depression or how depression
happens. And we do know that if you stimulate these centers, patients can have temporary relief
relief of their depressive symptoms. So transcranial magnetic stimulation is probably, um, the closest
we're getting to what you, you're talking about. The problem is that the, uh, that the field is
still, the, the, the, the coverage of TMS is very wide and you can't have, uh, a stimulation
of a very, very small or even a microscopic area. Right. So obviously I think that if we
can get a device through laser beam or optical stimulation, that'd be ideal. But I think that
this, this subject is so complex and sorry, I don't, I don't mean to, to sound very, uh,
um, unreasonable here or, or too, too much of a dreamer, but I think it's probably going to be
easier for us to think about, um, computer singularity and sharing our brains with the
hardware devices than having a structure like Neuralink that's going to be able to control
a biologic body the way they are thinking about. So I think the way singularity is, is evolving
these days is so much faster than the way biological enhancement is evolving that I'm not entirely
sure whether when Neuralink or the equivalents become, uh, uh, available, we won't have
something far superior for silicone bodies. Um, I just want to say that, uh, I'm very familiar
with TMS, but I, I do believe it's, uh, it's, it's oversold and it's not appropriate in all
cases of depression, especially cases where the depression is caused by a metabolic disorder
because if, if, if, if the depression is basically, the idea is, you know, you're blasting the brain
with a bunch of energy. Um, that's, that is, it is, uh, you know, that there was a previous
version of that in the like 1960s, I think, in psychology where they're, uh, called electroconvulsive
shock therapy, which turned out to be a really big disaster. Um, there's a huge differences
with transcranial magnetic stimulation. It's, it compared to electroconvulsive therapy, it's
far more, um, it's far more targeted and it's, it's like very precise in terms of the frequencies
that it's stimulating your brain with. So it's, it's, it's different in many respects,
but the idea here is that if, if a person is suffering from depression because their cells
are not able to, to, to process enough, you know, uh, adendo, uh, triphosphate, uh, adenosine
triphosphate, you know, or ATP, if they're unable to make enough energy, then, then, then giving
that person, uh, you know, a TMS, um, treatment is not going to really help them in the long
term, uh, that, that, it may actually make things worse.
Nika, Nika, I was just, I'm sorry. Again, I might, uh, I might not, uh, express myself
appropriately. I was just giving you an example in, in, in, like most things in medicine, there's
no such thing as one size fits all, right? So there is depression and depression, there
is stroke and stroke. There is, uh, all conditions in medicine, several types of, of, uh, of
presentation. So yes, I didn't mean that this is a magical solution for depression.
Sorry. And, and, and one other thing I am, um, I'm actually, um, funded by NASA and we're
using TMS to enhance, um, uh, enhance cognition. And, um, and so we're applying that over the
frontal lobes. And, and, and I think one of the biggest drawbacks about TMS is the depth
that doesn't go deep enough to get, um, to, to deeper structures like limbic structures and other
areas. I think that's one of the biggest drawbacks of TMS. And one other thing, Micah, is that, um,
is that, um, electroconvulsive therapy, um, it, it can be a disaster, but it can also be a lifesaver.
And it still is in use today and, um, and, uh, very severe cases of depression, but in those
cases, it can really be a lifesaver. Yeah. I mean, I, I, um, I, I, uh, there's, there's,
yeah, I, I can't disagree with you at all that, um, there's, and I think, I think the idea behind,
behind DBS or deep brain stimulation is, is sort of vaguely similar. If you have someone who,
who's depression or, or other, you know, PTSD isn't related to a metabolic disorder, um,
and they really just need more stimulation, uh, than, um, than everything we just mentioned,
uh, might, might potentially, including, uh, what wasn't mentioned, TDCS, those all might
be helpful, um, depending on, uh, what the patient's, uh, needs are. KKJ, you wanted to say
something? I was kind of curious, uh, to Donna's point, I think she mentioned this at the very
end of one of her, um, remarks, um, where if you sort of have a version two of Neuralink,
you can just sort of, like, leave the version one in there, uh, and I guess just let it sit
there dormant and then install the version two. Um, I'm wondering what the, like, upper
bound is for, like, version updates in that manner. At some point, do you sort of block ways
that you need possible cursor around very, just, like, minimally viable, see, um, use
some other points in the nerve. Imagine a patient that's one step further about lockdown, so essentially,
we are just essentially brain bags connected to our computers. I'm just curious what everyone
thought of those ideas. I think, uh, one of the important keys that I, as far as I understand when
people try to develop these, uh, uh, quotation, mind control technologies, what they're trying to do
is improve speed of action. And I think that if you, like you said, oh, moving the cursor just by
thinking, can we use some other parts of the body? I think that if you, you probably can, but you want to go
straight to the source of the information so you can make it as quick, as quick as possible.
And I think that if we have a good interface, uh, moving the cursor and you compare the speed that,
or the velocity that it takes or time that it takes for you to move the cursor just by thinking
or by thinking and then using your hands, I think that just thinking that you're moving the course,
a cursor without or by bypassing your limbs is probably going to be much quicker. And I think
that this is probably the main goal of this technology. It's going to be used for, um, tasks that require,
um, quick response and precise response. And, and if you think about your hand, uh, if you get your brain to
get a small object, obviously you will be somewhat precise, but like I was mentioned before,
you're not going to be as precise as a robot, for example. Uh, and that's why Neuralink is developing
these robots that are very precise for implementing these, uh, these devices in one's brain. So I think
that that's the goal. And I think that trying to do it, uh, some other way would be sort of futile
and it would, uh, defeat the purpose. Now coming to the last point of your question, factors,
and he had a stroke in a part of the brain called the brainstem in the transition between a part called
the midbrain and the pons. And that's a part where all the connections that go to your brain and come
out of your brain travel through. So there was a, uh, as if someone cuts with a knife, that part that
communicates your brain to your body. And this guy had what we call, and you probably heard about this
for what we call a locked in syndrome. Uh, so he could only move his eyes up and down and blink.
And that was all he could do. And this is a very clever person who's a surgeon, highly active and
very fit. So if you, if you asked me 10 years ago, what would you offer this patient? I would say,
look, this isn't, there's no quality of life there. Um, I think we should probably just offer
uh, comfort measures and let him die. Let nature takes its course. But now I am at a point where I
still don't have, I still don't think we have a solution for the problem. But when I was discussing
this with the patient, with the, and with the family, I was thinking, should I offer these guys
to keep him alive for five years, hoping that's Neuralink or whatever is available is going to help
this guy in the future, or should he just pay the penalty for not being born in the right time in the
same place and let him die knowing that at any time we can have a technology that will be very
helpful for him. And at the end of the day, the guy was a very proud surgeon and he decided with his
family that he wanted to die. And we actually, uh, let him die. But what a waste of brain tissue
letting someone die just because they have no communication to their bodies, knowing that
their minds are intact and they're cognitive cognitively, they're fine. Please help us, Mika.
So I understand the point that maybe a brain interface has higher throughputs and would be
more performant than, um, something that would replicate the signal of moving your hand or moving
your limb. But isn't that what we have now? I mean, like when you type on a keyboard, uh,
those are essentially, that's neural activity that's being fired through your arm. So if the goal is not
to create like the super interface, if the goal is just to have a quality of life that's commensurate
with, uh, that is epsilon better than dying, that is, you know, closer to what we have now,
would that be less risky in terms of being able to extract, uh, or having the unintended consequences
of putting something in your brain? I mean, the downside there is just like, rather than you have
to be left with no options. I, I suspect that we, I'm sorry, George, Jonah, it's not just
an incremental, uh, optimization from just typing on a phone. I think, I think there's going to be, uh,
uh, opportunities to evolve, uh, language, uh, potentially, uh, even anticipate who's trying
to communicate. Just, again, this is just one example of so many stories that we, we hear every
day and we live every day and like, uh, the person who was mentioning about, uh, their parents before and,
and, and look, there's always hope that one day technology will be able, but I was thinking also
that maybe, uh, an interface that might be able to control a, uh, an exoskeleton that would, uh,
support this guy's body and at least give him some opportunity to walk around and do
minimal, minimal things that would make his life a little bit less boring than just sitting on, uh,
or lying on in bed and, uh, watching Netflix all day long. You can only watch so much Netflix, right?
Yeah, yeah, an exoskeleton, I can think about that, but that's the other aspect of it as well.
I was going to say this one thing, like, uh, you guys are all familiar with like how Tesla started
with luxury cars, trying to, uh, you know, uh, demonstrate that, uh, there was a market for this
and then eventually use that to fund, uh, and, you know, create economies of scale for the Model 3.
Uh, the folks who are, uh, uh, likely to benefit from this, uh, uh, like the, the patient that you
described, um, if they can get, uh, experience creates, if they can get advantages that, um,
clearly, um, you know, leapfrog ahead of us, you know, that's, I think, where the tipping point
could occur, uh, where we see them having benefits. If they were once paralyzed, but now
they're communicating and, um, you know, being productive in a way that's far more efficient
than we currently are, without Neuralink, I think that would be the tipping point that could occur
in the coming, uh, coming decade. And, and, and that could be where others would want to, uh, um,
I think it was called medical tourist, I think Michael was talking about earlier, but medical tourism,
uh, the idea of going around, uh, uh, uh, you know, to places where perhaps, uh, you can get your
own Neuralink, uh, implanted, that sort of thing. I, I definitely, uh, if you think, just think about,
like, hunter-gatherers, like, you know, we, uh, today, like, uh, you know, I'm sure back then,
if you were a certain size, a certain physique, a certain strength, uh, that was, uh, you know, uh,
an advantage for survival, um, to, today, uh, you know, like, that's not the case. And I can only
imagine that how, uh, some, you know, just in general technology and other advancements, uh,
allowed for many folks who perhaps were, were not biologically, uh, necessarily, uh, the, the most
suited for survival of, uh, uh, you know, 5,000 years ago, uh, today, I, I think, um, uh, you know,
because of technology, because of all these advancements, we were all part of this sort of
modern civilization. And I think perhaps Neuralink, um, could do something just, uh, similar by
leading the charge with folks who are paralyzed and, um, other types of issues, neurodegenerative
issues, um, giving them an edge over the rest of civilization and then causing that to be the
tipping point for, uh, wanting to pick up these, um, tools as well. I think there's a couple of,
a couple of big things, um, uh, to, to think about, uh, that maybe haven't been mentioned. I wasn't
here from the very beginning, but, um, um, um, one of them was, um, I wish I wasn't drawing a blank right
now. So, so one of them was, uh, connecting your brain, uh, to, uh, okay. So, so one of the,
so back in 2012, I opened up a business in San Francisco. That was a biofeedback, neurofeedback
business, alternative, um, therapy. And, uh, the goal was to, um, uh, use, uh, EEG to drive
light and sound to your, to your, to goggles that you would wear with your, to LED glasses and into,
um, uh, and headphones. And so you'd be immersed, your brain would be immersed in light and sound
patterns that had, that were being driven by your own EEG patterns. And, um, the idea here was,
in my experience with it was that, um, by listening to, by, by, by feeding these signals that your brain
was, your brainwaves were causing changes to back into your brain through your eyes and ears,
that you might begin to sense your, your own brain activities and also sense how your thoughts and
feelings were becoming brainwaves and were then changing, uh, uh, the, the life and sound, which
was then, so basically the, the, the, my, my hope was at the time that this would allow me to understand
to a greater extent, uh, basically, um, uh, to become self-aware of my brain activity, of my brainwaves
and my, and how my thoughts and feelings were brainwaves. Um, and, uh, uh, you know, I know a lot
more now about the brain than I knew back then. And, and there's, um, there's huge sort of, um,
problems with, uh, problems with, uh, problems with, uh, the, the, um, I, I, maybe it doesn't,
won't help that much to go into it, but, but, but the basic idea, the basic idea is that maybe with
the, the, um, the greater resolution and definition of, of, of Neuralink, if you could send that, that
activity back into your own brain, maybe you would have a much higher resolution understanding of your
own brain. Like, sort of like in the, like the way meditators, uh, so, so there's, there's,
there's all these, um, you know, stories about, you know, I guess the big story is, is, is, uh,
Siddhartha, Siddhartha, Gautama sat, sat underneath the tree just for a very long time. And he saw,
and then he realized he was one with the universe and, and then, and then the Buddha and the Buddha,
right. It's the Buddha story. But, um, but there's all these stories like, well, if you become
somehow more aware of your thoughts and feelings and you could have transformational growth, you
could have happiness, you could have peace, you could have, you could have more control over your,
your own choices and you can make better choices and, and you'd have enlightenment and you would,
you would, and so like, what, what if we could mass produce, uh, enlightenment where people become
very in touch with themselves, very self-aware and very at peace. They find very, they like you,
like, like imagine, think about all the unhappy people in the world. Well, well, what if you could,
just create a device. Okay. Well, hey, you're unhappy, but there's a, there's a way, uh, try this
device and in short order, you'll become very, you'll become enlightened. You, you'll gain great
insight into how your mind works and how you're doing the things that are not working for you
and how you can do the things that do work for you. And that's one thing. So the other thing is
artificial intelligence. So when Neuralink was first discussed, uh, they, there were two, two ideas
sort of seemed to emerge when it was a telepathy and one was artificial intelligence, uh, telepathy.
Yeah. If you can send, if you can connect your, your brain signals to a computer and then send
them to someone else, it's sort of like an artificial telepathy and artificial intelligence is different.
Um, it's, it's, uh, it depends on, I mean, it's, it's, it's, uh, um, so I had this dream one time
that I, I was, the dream is interesting because it's, it's like one possibility out of a million
possibilities, you know, a lot of different possibilities. But I, in this dream, I went
to a cafeteria and I sat down and I, the, the, I accepted this chip and the chip was,
was a little AI and I could put it either on my waist or my neck. And the idea is that it would
tap into my nervous system and begin sending and receiving messages to my, to my brain.
And, um, and then I, I got up out of my body. Now I was basically in a lucid dream.
The computer induced the lucid dream. The AI was managing my brain so that it looked like I looked
at, so it looked managing my brain and my body so that it looked as if I was sitting in a cafe
in a normal way, drinking a cup of coffee and just sitting there. But then in the lucid dream
that the computer created for me, sort of like virtual reality, but it's like, it's like an
induced dream. I was, but, and I was aware, aware it was a dream and I was aware the computer was
creating the dream. I got up and walked out of the cafeteria and, uh, and then I began to play
sort of like an augmented reality game where I was in the world, but now there was like,
there was angels coming out of the sky and they had like axes and swords and, and, and medieval
weapons. And I had to, had to fight them. And it was, and this was, um, this was what I,
one of the things that I imagined the future would be like in the stream. So I just wanted to share that
and maybe with AI and VR.
I'll just, uh, teach you a very cool experiment. So if you wanna be somewhat aware of what your, uh,
brain activity is like, so obviously the brain electrical activity works in frequencies,
uh, hurts. So, um, when they try, if, if there's a bright light or, or even, I think the best way
of doing this is, uh, lie down outdoors on a sunny day, uh, and, uh, close your eyes,
but make sure you focus on your vision and you will see like, uh, uh, an inverse ripple effects,
the circles coming from the periphery to the center of your vision and there's circle after circle
after circle. That is the frequency of your occipital lobes or the sequence or the frequency
of discharge of electrical activities from your occipital lobes, which is where, uh, your vision
is controlled. And this is one of the modalities that people, or this is the one of the, this is one
of the ways that people use for, uh, starting their meditation just by looking at these circles
and trying to disconnect from the outer world and going to their inner world. If you do meditation,
try doing that and you'll see how, how cool that is. So I have a question, maybe, uh, for hairs or
one of the other, um, neurologists, neuroscientists might have some insight on this, but my understanding
is that the current, like the, at least the demo monkey or whatever that Neuralink had
is essentially using the Neuralink for like brain output, right? They were controlling the
pong game or whatever with their mind, but their input was still sort of, um, you know, their eyes.
Um, does Neuralink based on what we know of the current technology have a solution for the input or
is the input, but we're sort of banking on sort of like a prosthetic eye or prosthetic ear technology,
or is this not relevant? Is, is output essentially the, is there a reason why output is the only
method that is being focused on right now? I can answer that. Um, so, so Neuralink has, uh,
read and write capabilities. They, they, these electrodes that can read your brain can also, uh,
you can also transmit, uh, uh, electrical stimulation through them. And, and so the,
what they're talking about is creating closed loop therapies where you, you send some stimulus and
then you, you read, um, to see what the stimulus did. And then you send some more stimulus and
you read again to see what the stimulus did. Then you figure out if the therapy is helping or not
helping. That's the, that's an, in a nutshell, that's the most simple, simple way to explain a
closed loop therapy. Um, but, but, um, but yeah, but in addition to that, there's nothing that stops
scientists then who's using a Neuralink to, um, to also use the eyes and ears in addition to the
electrical stimulation provided by the device. Right. So that's used for therapy, but I was
saying that like, if I just wanted to like project an image into my brain without using my eyes or
ears, is that something that is like, certainly that wouldn't be in the category of the therapy,
right? That's something that's beyond our technology now, beyond our conceivable technology.
No, that's, that's, that's how, that's when you start using psychedelic drugs,
because this is, it's projecting an image into your brain. It's not that, that simple.
The pathway is so complex that having a structure that's by not using your vision is going to be able
to stimulate different, so many different parts of your brain to trigger that image is, I think,
sorry, never say never, but I think it's virtually impossible. It would have to be something super
sophisticated and, and, uh, and, uh, unbelievably, uh, uh, complex, but I think, uh, yeah, that's,
that's when psychedelic drugs can, can help you with that. And there are lots of places and studies
that are showing that you can do this in controlled environments, uh, very safely. And the experience that
people get are mind blowing and they help for a number of medical conditions and even just to
improve your performance, improve your, uh, your levels of energy and, uh, healthy people are doing
it because it, uh, it works.
Right, but that's not a solution to the brain, the computer interface, right? Like we're trying to,
the computer is trying to project.
No, it's never, but that's what I'm saying. I don't think we'll have that sort of solution.
But would that just sort of be then an artificial eye that is like you just plug your eye into a
computer and it's just sort of projects the image through your eye pathway, or maybe an artificial ear
is easier to create. I guess we have these inter, um, cochlear implants already, but, um.
So I, so I have reasons to, to disagree, um, if I can share. So, so I mean, look,
if you consider David Eagleman's work, um, he, he, uh, you know, and, and, and the work that he
talks about done by others, um, they, uh, they, you know, for example, I, I brought this up earlier
that they can, uh, plug a camera, uh, into an electrode strip that they can put on your back or your
tongue and then your brain can work out what the image is. They can also take an eyeball out of a rat
and plug it into the audio cortex of the rat and your brain can, and the rat's brain can, can begin
to see, uh, that way. Um, so what, what that tells us is that it is possible to make the brain see
through, through electrical stimulation, whether you're stimulating the brain or stimulating the
skin or stimulating the tongue, it's possible to, to make the brain see things. In addition, um,
um, our TMS expert left, but, but, you know, she said she had also experienced that if you
stimulate the brain, some, sometimes if you stimulate the brain with TMS, people see a light that's not
there. All of this points to the fact that with, with brain stimulation, it is possible to make people
see things. Um, but I, I don't, I don't know if I, okay, I'll pause. Well, I was just going to follow
up with that, um, what Jorge was saying about, um, psychotropic drugs or psychedelic drugs. My
understanding of, of how, uh, LSD is actually, um, affects the brain is, is similar to synesthesia,
right? Where I believe that's the right term, where it's essentially remapping the neural connections
between the different senses. And that's why, um, people see, uh, they'll, they'll taste color or they
will, um, uh, feel sound or something like that. Um, their neural pathways are basically
not interchangeable, but can be remapped, uh, inside the brain. And, and to your point, Mika,
about, um, having this sort of interoperability between, um, the, uh, the different, uh, sensory
inputs. I think that's, I think there is a lot of research to still be done to really understand,
um, the availability of these, of these neural pathways. But I think that, uh, to sort of answer
KKG's, um, or KKJ's question, I think there is a good opportunity to reimagine the input interface,
um, and how it correlates to the, um, uh, how Neuralink actually provides the output, uh, to control,
uh, a separate function. Like if you can imagine maybe, um, if the visual, uh, receptor isn't
available, maybe there's a sensory one, maybe there's a hearing one where you can actually, um,
control the Neuralink using some other sort of sensory function rather than, uh, simply
relying on a singular one. Sorry guys, I'll just quickly, uh, I have to leave. It was great
talking to you and I hope we can catch up, uh, some other time. Thank you.
Great conversation already. Thank you very much for, uh, participation.
I, I, um, I, I think I need to go to bed, so I'm gonna head out too. Thank you. Good night.
Thanks again, Mika. Again, it was great, great to hear, uh, your perspective on everything.
Thanks you so much.
This has been really great. I think it's, uh, this is a bit
great.
Thank you.
