=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0311y Neurophysics+NerveGear Happy Hour Oscillations Rhythms Neurons Signals Eeg
First recorded: 2021-04-16T07:07:50.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/cce0a746-311c-4335-8f2d-eab6be2b4dbe
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Okay, let me just invite people. Let me invite. Welcome. Hey, Ahmed. How are you doing? Good, good. How are you doing? Good. It's me and you only. At the moment, I just started it. I didn't give people a lot of advance notice, so this is pretty good so far.
Hey. Can you see my link?
On Insta. I haven't seen it yet, so maybe I'll look right now, huh? Maybe I'll look.
I listened to you, and I guess yesterday, for Neuralink discussion, I guess one thing that came to mind listening to that conversation was whether this whole Neuralink was potentially just a project within Tesla,
just basically to find a way to find high-fidelity signals for some cognitive sort of patterns of decision-making for super gnarly edge cases in L5 driving.
I mean, I listened to that whole conversation and thought maybe the Tesla group wanted to really dig deep into that.
Oh, yeah, yeah. So, I mean, the discussion of Neuralink, and I think I would refer to it as what I was saying was about how the process of decoding with Neuralink is just a new,
we're talking about a new, like, we're talking about big data, like extracting big data from the human brain, from neurons.
It goes way beyond, like, the Utah Array or DBS or EEG or ECOG or, you know, any other medical imaging device
in terms of how much data it's capturing at the resolution that it's capturing.
And for that purpose, I'm just going to invite everybody who comes up to come up and talk.
And so for that purpose, the potential applications go way beyond.
Like, so right now, I guess, you know, Neuralink is trying to just show that they can do the same things that other devices can do,
that they can, because by itself, if you can prove, if they can prove that their device can do what an ECOG machine can do,
but it's cheaper and it's mass-produced, well, that's good enough.
That's a good enough value proposition, right?
And it has other benefits over ECOG for that specific application of just, you know,
having a person or a monkey just control a cursor on a computer or, you know, remote or just a remote limb.
So for that purpose alone, it's going to be worth the money for these companies to invest in.
But the potential, like, is far greater.
The potential applications are mind-expanding.
And then they start to enter into the realm of sci-fi in terms of, you know,
maybe we're talking about decoding thoughts at the, or short-term, really, I mean, really,
what I meant to say is really decoding short-term memories at the level of individual neural circuits.
That is more, it's more precise in saying decoding thoughts.
It's where, like, yeah, decoding, like, local neural circuit patterns.
So that we can have basically, and what that means is that just means, like, it's a high-resolution decoding.
So if you have, if you can, with ECOG, you know, figure out where the monkey intends to use to move the cursor,
and you can do that, you can do it with high-resolution with new devices,
well, that means that you can figure out where the monkey intends to move the cursor with much more precision,
and also figure out, you know, what the monkey's intentions are,
whether the monkey intends, you know, a grape or a banana,
and specifically a grape or a banana.
Like, which, like, what is, that's what we're, that's like, it's high-resolution decoding, right?
So those are my thoughts yesterday.
Thanks for that, yeah. Interesting.
Welcome, Avi.
Yeah, welcome, Avi.
Yes, Avi, it's fine.
Thanks, I was very excited, actually.
Seeing that, how this neural link worked, and I came across the article as well.
I have to read a lot about this brain neuron filings and how it controls the motor neurons.
I'm not so sure about, not, I know very basic about this.
I mean, maybe I cannot share much about the, how neurons function about,
and how they're going to control it with the neural link,
and that, and how it will really help to understand more about the CNS and coordination with the ANS.
So, but, but this, this, I can think, if, if, if, I see, in my perspective,
what we are working is, like, we wanted to implement some kind of small microchip
in the cardiac cells, and those cardiac cells,
we wanted to transmit some specific protein tags upon their expression.
But what, in contrast, what I understood from neural link, you may correct me,
that they are, they are collecting the, the, the electric pulses,
which I, I, I slightly differ, because how, because it's very close circuit,
and so much snow firing happens at one time, and how they're going to do it.
But, but reading the last article, which came out yesterday,
that they could able to, they, they successfully implanted in the monkey,
and that, that performs well.
So, I'm very curious, and I will be reading a lot about it.
But my research domain mostly holds to cardiac cells,
so I may not give more insight on this topic.
Thanks, Mika.
Yeah, so, so, so, so you use, what, EKG to measure cardiac cells?
Yes, we, we have, those are, like, very, um, smaller,
I don't know whether you come across with the small nano chips,
which is nanomaterial, like, very ultra-thin,
and they are being tagged with the small, um, kind of antibody,
and which is, um, of an expression of a specific protein,
of the one, one, one, uh, they will emit, emit a signal outside,
and it is happening, uh, in, uh, in a cell, in a cellular level.
So, so, so we are trying to establish that hypothesis that we can use it,
and we can read it, um, even if what is the, the, the complex network is going on.
Uh, but we are, uh, I have, uh, neither I have expertise in reading out the electrical pulse,
so we are more into biochemicals.
So, so what is it, what is the type of cell usually that we're reading when we, when we do EKG?
The stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes.
So, these are human, uh, stem cells-derived cardiomyocytes.
They are functioning, they are beating,
and we wanted to build a small network and do three proteins together.
We wanted to see which protein triggering another protein,
or which, uh, pathway is helping, or it is simultaneous,
or it is, uh, it follow a hierarchy.
We want to see that.
So, we are developing that technology, yes.
Okay, and then, uh, so, would you, would you, is it correct to say that, that, um,
we can consider that EKG is really, like, the, the, the frequency range of the cardiomyocyte pulsation?
No, partial correct.
We really cannot, um, say that eloprocardiogram is totally correlated with the cardiomyocyte function.
Uh, however, it depends upon the maturation, and, like, how the cells are becoming,
but when we make the cardiomyocyte from stem cells,
they are actually neorental.
They do actually, the signals, uh, uh, uh, uh, I think one or two months after the, the conceive,
like, uh, the baby's still in the womb.
So, you will see that kind of pattern in, inside a, inside the womb.
It's not even a baby.
When you get a baby, uh, like, uh, up to the birth, the beating or the EKG pattern completely
change, and which still we are struggling to get.
Many of the, this big challenge is still in front of us, is, like, how we can mature the
cell and inject into the, the right place of, of, of, of a patient, what you call is cell
therapy.
Um, that's why it's failing again and again in a lot of, uh, I think 2019, I guess, in
British, uh, Heart Foundation, they tried to implant a heart patch.
And same patient, they derived the cardiomyocyte and they wanted to patch it.
Uh, they were not success, um, which I completely understand, but at least they have tried, uh,
uh, and, and, and, and we are also trying how we can mature, we still see some signature
of cancerous, uh, genomes that still, they grow in, as, as they grow in the stem cells.
So, they are not so much safe as well, or for now, but eventually I think this barrier
will, will be overcome.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Sounds good.
Um, so, uh, oh, I, um, okay.
Uh, uh, yeah.
So, this, uh, so, uh, uh, this is popcorn to style discussion.
So, um, any, any questions, uh, anyone wants to, to have, or any, any, uh, topics anyone
wants to have, uh, this is meant to be like very casual, happy hour style.
So, welcome both of you.
And I'll pause.
I can jump off for dinner, but I'll come back later again.
Okay.
And, um, okay.
Well, and, and by the way, um, so if you're, if you're down, uh, below, uh, just come on
up and talk about, talk about anything.
I mean, yeah, I'm just, uh, you know, um, I don't know.
Did you come after us this, uh, article, uh, uh, today about the chimeric, uh, development,
IPS, uh, in monkey, uh, embryo?
Uh, no, no.
Let me, let me look it up.
Can you tell me what to look up?
Um, yeah, you can, uh, you can see it, uh, um, human, uh, like chimeric, uh, they put
a human induced pluripotent stem cells in monkey embryo and they could able to grow it up to
20 days and they were growing and they had to terminate it, uh, which means it could be
growing to something, uh, and, uh, this is a great topic.
I think, uh, many people have interest to know how they are growing stem cells, human
stem cells inside a monkey, monkey, uh, blastocyst.
So that's interesting.
And this is actually, uh, been a very, uh, I think I will say it's a real success that
if this will be possible, that this could, uh, open a new dimension of, of, of, um, organ
development, you know, it's, it's really exciting.
All right.
So I'm, I'm looking at, uh, uh, I think it's the right paper.
Let me just see if there's a date on this paper.
Uh, shoot.
Is it, so is it called generation of induced pluripotent stem cells from adult rhesus
monkey fibroblasts?
Correct.
Uh, well, it is in my Twitter though.
I have shared it.
Okay.
The contribution of human extended pluripotent stem cells to monkey embryos, ex vivo.
Chimeric.
Wait, say it again.
Chimeric what?
Chimeric contribution.
Contribution.
Of human.
Contribution of human extended pluripotent stem cells to monkey embryos.
To monkey embryos.
Uh, welcome Jacob.
Hey guys.
Hey.
Hey.
Unfortunately, I can't stick around, but I want to, I would like to keep talking or hear
this conversation.
Um, there is one thing that I haven't been able to talk to on clubhouse about yet, or anyone
that knows about, uh, the acquisition of control labs and just generally their technology.
I don't want to steer this conversation so I'm about to head out.
I know a lot.
I know a lot about it.
So I, I was tracking control labs way before they were bought by Facebook.
So, yeah, as well, as was I, maybe not as, as, uh, soon as you were, but I was not surprised
by their acquisition and I was kind of rooting for them.
Um, but yeah, I'd love to, to chat about it another time.
Sweet.
Cool.
Um, did you see the new, so there's a new, there's news on the topic from OpenBCI.
They have a new, um, basically like an armband that is, uh, EMG.
Yeah, I saw that there was, uh, yesterday or two days ago, a few days ago.
I just saw it this morning, so.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
I'm not sure when it came out, but I just saw it this morning, so.
I don't know the whole story yet.
Yeah, I think, uh, I forget what company, not Dexcom, but some other company has a EMG
IMU node that they sell, like in, in, uh, packages of like 10 or 12.
So, having this open-sourced, uh, module, I think is going to be great for this kind
of research.
Yeah.
Great.
So, there's that.
I'm actually, so I'm, I'm sort of like looking that up to see if I can, if I can find the
news.
I don't know why it's not appearing, but.
So, we've got, so we've got that and we've got, uh, stem cells, uh, scientists generating
monkey, human monkey turmeric embryos.
Very exciting, you know.
It's like, I think why, why I said this is because, uh, it is still very challenged how
to develop.
We are certain of organ transplantation, you know, cannot really develop a, um, a good
tissue even.
We cannot develop a tissue in, in lab, can, with current advancement of science, we can
only gather some cells and they will be clump each other.
Um, yeah, people are trying to do it a 3D print where they can build a good network of
neurons, of, uh, blood supply and, and a whole lot of things as a, as a, as a human.
And we cannot do, if this chimeric construct, if this chimeric approach is successful, then
what, what, what is in front of us is the, in the same way, by guiding the stem cells to
differentiate into a specific organ or specific kind of cells may get a save inside the, inside
the, inside the, inside the, uh, oh, at least.
Just imagine, we put some, some, we put some human induced pluripotent stem cell in the blastocyte
and we inject that egg to monkey, to the monkey again.
And, uh, to the monkey, we give some medication, uh, where the embryo has, at the side by side,
there will be a treatment for the embryo.
So, and then, then in a very specific manner, uh, the development will occur to, to a specific
organ, the way we do differentiation or the, the, the way we do, um, from stem cells to bone
stem cells, to, um, any, any specific, um, kind of cells in the lab.
So, what we are expecting is probably, probably by doing that, we can able to make a, make some
organ development, that's very long term, what, what, uh, this kind of study gives us some
good hope on that, that ground.
So, I'm very curious and I think a lot of labs are also trying here to do, to do that with
mice as well.
But mice is, um, they find the cells after putting the IPS cells inside the blastocyte, they are
dying.
However, this, yesterday paper says, uh, the cells were survived up to 20 days, which
is really good.
Okay, I'll reset the room real quick.
Um, welcome Frank, Nick, and Cecile.
I want to give you, each of you a chance to speak, um, uh, very shortly.
This is a popcorn style discussion, so you can pick your own topic and, uh, or ask any question
you want.
And, um, and it's pretty open, so, uh, what, uh, I mean, so, so far we, I just wanted to
say we've talked about, uh, we've talked about stem cells, we've talked about implanting, uh,
stem cells into monkeys, and we've also talked about, um, the, uh, briefly, uh, Control Labs
was mentioned, and then OpenBCI has a new, uh, armband.
So, I'll go ahead and pause and, um, let everyone who's new, uh, uh, speak.
Thanks, Micah, for starting the, the room.
Uh, I don't know if there's any sort of, like, topic that you guys are covering, like you
said, um, or just kind of random, anything, uh, neuro or neurophysics.
Yeah, I don't know.
Uh, how about this?
How about something that, um, uh, I'm starting to put a grant together right now for, which
is the interaction between neuroinflammation, local neuroinflammation within a brain circuit
and drug sensitivity.
What have you got, Micah?
Um, all right.
Why don't you, I'm really interested.
So, neuroinflammation, uh, would you say it again?
Neuroinflammation with drug sensitivity?
Yes.
So, basically, uh, neuroinflammation, let's say priming a rhythmic circuit to change sensitivity
to a subsequent drug application.
Arrhythmic circuit.
That makes sense.
I'm, uh, so I'm still trying to put the whole sentence together.
So, neuroinflammation priming a rhythmic circuit and, uh, for drug sensitivity.
Yeah, so basically, like, how does it change the drug sensitivity?
And so it's kind of a pie in the sky as of right now, which is why I'm putting the grant
together on it, but, um, you know, the, sort of the idea that, let's say, uh, you have a
patient with, I don't know, maybe sleep apnea or you have a patient with, uh, COPD or some
sort of, like, chronic or exposure to, let's say, hypoxia or hypercapnia, or maybe they have
an infection, or maybe you have a cancerous patient or something like that, that leads
to some sort of known, uh, inducible amount of neuroinflammation.
So, meaning that you have, like, an increase in the amount of measurable, um, neuroinflammatory
molecules, um, being that either, like, TNF-alba, O1-beta, any of the, any of your typical,
uh, cytokines that you can measure.
And perhaps on, you know, on, on just the side of function, it's not necessarily on a
day-to-day function that can necessarily change anything, uh, because we certainly have compensatory
mechanisms that will take over in order to keep the, you know, the rhythmic circuits normal.
But, when you, uh, give a secondary insult, say, you give, uh, drugs or anesthesia or opioids
or anything like this, suddenly the network may become more susceptible to it.
And I guess we don't necessarily know that as of right now.
So, I just, uh, be curious, because I know, uh, you do a lot of reading on, on rhythmic circuits,
what your thoughts on it are.
Sure. So, um, so, uh, well, my first, my first thought is that, uh, I, I'm surprised this hasn't
been studied in more detail. You, if you propose something that at once, uh, seems, seems, uh,
novel and obvious, that it's something that should be studied for, I mean, because, you know,
with, um, you know, when, when you have a part of the body that's undergoing serious inflammation,
the environment is different, right? And, and, uh, so, so you've got a whole bunch of inflammatory
molecules floating around and maybe you have a cytokine storm. And then if, so then, if you then
try to like add drugs, like the drug interaction, uh, the results of the drug interaction, I think,
um, in many cases, if not most cases, um, ought to be different. Um, not exactly sure, but I mean,
this is like a, it's like a chem lab experiment. Oh yeah, no, no, absolutely. That's, that's the
whole idea is that we know that they're different, but we don't know why. And so the, the, the grant
would be more focused on the mechanisms of, of why you would sensitize some circuits or desensitize
others, if that makes sense. So let's say you have inflammation that suddenly upregulates,
uh, like a voltage gated sodium channel expression or presynaptic membrane. So then you could see
that, you know, for a given action potential coming down a neuron, you get a greater amount
of transmitter release, uh, something like that. So, so we definitely know that there is
that synergistic relationship, uh, where you would change the sensitivities, but we don't
necessarily know why for a lot of those things. Yeah, no, the topic is, is hugely important.
I mean, it's like, I mean, I think I oversimplified it by saying it's a chem lab experiment.
It's a chem lab lab experiment inside a live, inside a live biology. It's crazy, but important.
Yeah. So I'm just, uh, at this moment, just sort of stringing together, uh, possible pilot
experiments to put together some, some data in order to, uh, put the grant together. But
yeah. Yeah. I mean, I, I, as long as you can, uh, I think this has to be successful as
long as you can, um, just, uh, present it in a way that is, is super easy for, for those,
uh, you know, pass, passing, uh, approving the grant to, uh, to get the concept and the
importance of it. Um, but it's also huge, like sort of a huge, uh, undertaking, I think. Um,
anyone else have thoughts on that?
Sorry, I missed the, I don't know how much of that, a good chunk probably. I mean, are you
going to induce inflammation like systemically with LPS or something, or are you just going
to have your slice and throw, I don't know, some inflammatory cytokines or something on
there? Uh, I guess you're somewhat curious about the approach.
Yeah, I think, uh, well, okay. So I think that I'm going to use environmental exposure
to either like intermittent hypoxia or something. Um, the model, cause I, I usually focus on the
respiratory system. So, um, a model of sleep apnea basically, but in order to get the mechanisms,
I'm thinking I'm going to have to do LPS, which is just a lipopolysaccharide, which is for anyone
that doesn't know, it's a reproducible way to induce a, uh, known amount of inflammation
into the system. So basically you, you inject that and then he gives this big inflammatory
response. Um, so I'll probably have to use LPS to get at the mechanisms and then do some
sort of, uh, either non-targeted mass spec or proteomics or RNA-seq to see which transmitters,
uh, or I should say inflammatory molecules are, are out-regulated with locally within the
circuit and then take a healthy slice and then apply that on top.
So because there's so much going on with biology, um, it's like, it's like you have to like for
any study, you're going to have to like control for a huge amount of very, um, possible, like
there could be like really different gene expressions and different proteins being created in the
two different bodies. Um, you know, I guess if you're doing mice, you have a lot of cloned
mice, so maybe that's easier, but, uh, but still there's a lot to control in a, in an environment.
How are you going to isolate the, um, the essential data that is, is, is going to allow you to,
to, to prove one, one, one concept or another?
Uh, well, I mean, it's certainly going to be for, you know, usually the grants like four
years long and, uh, with a decent amount of funding. So, so that necessarily isn't going
to be a limitation, but, um, I mean, it is, but, but in the short term, I guess not really,
but, um, yeah, it's going to have to be, I guess, um, to the point where you have to start
out and have some sort of known stressor that's going to lead to the inflammation. So first we
got to see if that's even true, which I think a lot of the different studies, which I've
dive into the literature are going to already be showing that because, uh, neuroinflammation
has certainly been a, a key topic or at least a buzzword, um, you know, within the neuroscience
field. But from there, that's when it's going to be the trick is to try to figure out the
mechanism. Cause like you said, everything is, is going to be sort of subject dependent,
uh, you know, because you could have the exact same oscillatory output from some network, despite
the fact that you have completely different transmitter profiles than I do before, you
know, from mouse to mouse, uh, in red straight. Um, but I guess what I was curious from, from,
I guess, uh, the, your perspective or anybody else's perspective in the audience is that,
um, you know, when, when you take it out to the innovation side of it, uh, so what's, what
do you think would be some sort of outputs that you would be able to use or measurable tools
that you would be able to use from a non-invasive standpoint as sort of an end point for the
grant to say that, Hey, you know what, these are some of the mechanisms that we find. Now,
how are we going to be able to translate that into a more broadly applicable, uh, tool in
order to get an understanding of whether or not this network has changed? Like either
like surface electrode type of analyses, cause that much is definitely out of my wheelhouse.
Uh, well, so, um, I, I, like I said, I'm not, I'm not the, I guess what I want to say
is, um, while I am not the, uh, the, the, the 30 year, uh, the person who at UCSF, who's
been doing hard neuroscience and medical research for 30 years, uh, I am, uh, I, I am an enthusiast
of the topic. And what I'm, what I'm thinking is that if I was going to try to sell an experiment
with like this, I would, I would want to say, okay, well, um, you know, cause, cause,
so, so the basic, the basics of the experiment is that you want to compare, um, you know,
how a drug is affected by inflammation, just like, you know, plain and simple, but you,
you could, you could do that by, you could do that and say, okay, we're going to test
something like injecting a mouse with, uh, COVID-19 and triggering inflammation and then,
and then study and then studying, we're going to inject a lot of mice with it, with this.
And then we're going to study how, um, the, the, how the inflammatory response from a virus,
uh, affects the, um, uh, basically the, uh, you know, the drug that we're going to give
the mouse. We're going to see how, how, how easy is it to put the, to, to give the mouse
anesthesia and if the, and if the COVID-19 affairs with, with the drug. And we'll be able to like
measure that by, by doing, you know, uh, all the different measurements that people currently do
with studying, um, you know, uh, mice with, with EEG and watching their behavior when they go to
sleep. And we're just going to see, we're just going to study like sleeping patterns with, and
it's basically sort of like the, has the components of your experiment, but it's like, it's, it sounds a
little bit more exciting because we're like doing, you know, we're comparing COVID-19 and anesthesia to,
to big things that seem to, um, attract a lot of money in the world. Right. And, and, um, and then
you can still do your own research underneath it. That's my thinking. I'll pause there.
So Nick, if this is a question, my current boss frequently asks, if everything goes according to
plan, what would the end result show? Like everything went swimmingly in the initial
experiments, um, what would it show? And then you can kind of design, hopefully design your bigger
outcome measure from there. Yeah, I think, you know, as of right now, the, the pie in the sky
hypothesis, I guess that would be sort of the main aim of, of the studies would be to show that, uh,
let's just say a sleep apnea, you know, for a, uh, reproducible model that we have in the lab,
um, induces either short or long-term, um, inflammation. And I don't mean like circulating
inflammation. I mean, inflammation as in like increase in the, uh, inflammatory cytokines
locally within the circuit, which can obviously work as transmitters. Um, and that alters the,
uh, expression profiles of different channels on the, uh, even the neurons of the glia, which
then primes, uh, the circuits either be, uh, more resistant or more sensitive to subsequent
drug application. And I have a track record of doing studies with opioids. So it might be,
you know, going back to the, the, how it changes opioid sensitivity, but you know, the thing that
would always get caught up with, and Brandon, you might know this as well, is that at some point
you might get hit with, okay, now what you're doing is an observatory study. You're giving the
inflammation, you're measuring the circuit, you're measuring the changes and you're measuring the,
uh, the drug sensitivity, but you're not showing a mechanism necessarily. And so that would be the
key is that, um, you know, trying to sell in a grant that you don't know what the mechanism is.
So we first have to find the mechanism and then be able to reproduce it in the absence of let's say
the sleep apnea or something like that. Yeah. Nick, how hard is it to inject, I assume pre-botsing
or something like, is it feasible to stick a fine like glass pulled electrode in there and inject
something? Oh yeah. And we can either do that in a slice or we can do it live in an in-devo system
as well. That's not hard. We can either, we can either, uh, in a anesthetized prep, we can
actually directly inject right into the pre-bot. In a slice, we can either locally apply the drug or
we can bath apply the drug, uh, or LPS or whatever it is. Uh, and then in-devo, we can chronically
implant, uh, micro dialysis probes in order to dialyze the drugs locally within there. Yeah. I'm
curious cause I'm wondering if you did, if you took, once you had like some slice stuff worked out
and decided like, Hey, this network's more susceptible or less susceptible to this
perturbation, um, you could go in vivo then and deliver either a short interfering RNA, probably via
viral, viral vector or upregulate something that was knocked down that you think might restore function
of the circuit. Um, I don't know what the, the functional like behavioral outcome you would look
at would be, but I would think that would tie nicely with, yeah, if you had some slice, some slice work,
um, and then just modulating it somehow. Yeah. In vivo, um, knocking down some target or. Oh,
that's a good idea. Yeah. We can always inject the viral vectors in order to insert something,
let's say is downregulated or knock out something that was, uh, upregulated. That's a good idea.
So cause you know, I was just going to say, because yeah, a lot of times, a lot of the studies that we've
been doing have been sort of, we've done the phenomenon or we've, we've measured the phenomenon
and then we've gone and measured the neural activity from a single cell from a network activity.
And then we've been using, I think I told Mike about these, those neural pixel probe, which is
basically like a multi-unit electrode array that can measure like 300 or so neurons at a time. So you
kind of get a, uh, a broad scale, uh, understanding of how the network changes function as far as like
the phenotype of firing patterns of the neurons. Uh, but again, it still comes back to that same
thing. Like you've innovated in the fact that we now can measure more than we did before.
Uh, but you're still just observing a phenomenon, you know, that's always the tough part about getting
the studies funded. So, so, uh, so, so what I, my thought was that, um, since you can measure
single cells, uh, with, with, uh, the electrodes, uh, that you, that you're injecting on the tip of a
needle or basically, right, that's what you're using. Uh, or you can measure basically the broader
activity, like, like maybe of many cells and, um, maybe 200 cells at once from that electrode,
maybe from the brainstem or something. And, um, so you can monitor, uh, you can monitor even
without the application of drugs, just the frequency changes, uh, to the oscillation activity
of the brain. Once it's, uh, once, you know, from, from a baseline to when, uh, a baseline without
inflammation to a baseline to, uh, the brain's oscillations being modified by inflammation. And
then, uh, and then compare that to the oscillatory changes, uh, when you apply medication versus when
you're applying the oscillatory changes, uh, to the brain at baseline without the inflammation.
We'll certainly do our best to, to do that. And that hits at sort of defining the phenomenon as
to what's occurring, but the, the trick always with selling it is then being able to
somehow modify the system, either to restore function or to, you know, type match what you're
seeing, uh, without actually having the perturbation.
Yeah. So I'm imagining that. Um, so on top of that, there also has to be a comparison to,
to changes in the animal's behavior and, um, and yeah, and like, like, like you said, like,
if you could take away the, the functionality and, or return the functionality to, to the animal's
behavior, that's another comparison. Nick, is there any, uh, like clinical
patient data that would show, um, that sleep apnea or something
has any link to neuroinflammation?
Yeah, I think that data is pretty rich and I, and I, you know, I'm not married to the idea
of neuroinflammation, but, uh, you know, how it is right now is that I'm a, I'm a fellow in the lab
or postdoc and, um, you know, I'm at that stage where I'm, I need to apply for K99 or the transition
to faculty award. So you kind of apply for your grants to get your own, uh, projects up and running in
your own lab up and running. And, um, you know, up until this point, we've been doing a lot of
sort of, I guess you would call it circuit breaking type of experiments, figuring out how the respiratory
network, um, is affected by opioids and stuff like that. And, you know, it's, they're very rich studies,
but if you go to apply and, um, let's say I want to study some other mechanism of opioid
induced respiratory depression, it's certainly a great study. Uh, but you're, you're, uh, then in
direct competition with the person whose lab that you're in already, which is pretty much a kiss of
death because you're never going to win there because they're already established. So you need to
somehow branch out and, uh, spread your wings and do something completely different. And so that was
the first thing that came to mind. And like I said, I just started thinking about this, like this
week. So, you know, I was just, uh, filling the void for, for topics in the room. Um, you know,
but, uh, yeah, that was, uh, the first thing that came to mind was the inflammation, but, uh,
certainly any other mechanisms are, are on the table as well. So I wonder, Nick, have you, um,
uh, have you, uh, so I, I'm actually, I just looked up, uh, neural inflammation and, uh,
some, it's brought up a possible link between cannabinoids, cannabinoids, or basically maybe
like smoking marijuana, smoking, uh, uh, and, uh, inflammation in the brain. And okay. So what I
was thinking was, um, is it a wealth, do you think it's like a well-studded topic already that the,
the idea that, uh, inflammation markers in the blood can, can, um, how, how, basically how they can
affect the brain? Um, because, you know, we have, you know, like if, like we were talking yesterday
in a, in a group and, uh, you may have been there for a part of it or maybe not. Um, but there,
we were talking about this, the stentrode, uh, uh, which is the device you can insert into the arm
and, um, you know, you can put it into the jugular and then you can push it up into a person's, uh,
through the vein into a person's, uh, uh, brain above the motor cortex. And so there is like a,
there's a, there's like a direct vein that goes from, from your arm into your brain. And, um,
and, uh, and, and so, I mean, it's like, that is a, right. It's like, um, you know, there's,
there's this, uh, there's the blood brain barrier and maybe we can talk about that a little bit,
but it's not, it's not leak proof. And there's definitely like, um, pathways for stuff that's
in your blood to get into your brain. And, uh, there are, there's also the lymphatic
system, which is also something that I, so if you, like what I'm saying is like, if, if a person gets,
if a person breathes in, you know, like, like the COVID virus, that could, that could, um, I guess
somehow get into their lymphatic system and get into the brain that way and get into their, their
blood and get into the brain that way. And, um, so, uh, and then of course, both the lymphatic system
and the blood vessel system have, you know, endothelial lining and the endothelial lining
has, um, uh, ACE2 receptors, which the virus would connect to. And, and then the question is,
okay, so if, if we have this inflammation going on, um, how is it affecting the, the, the rest of
the brain tissue outside the lymphatic system and the blood vessels? And, um, is this some,
is this something that's like barely understood? Is this a new frontier of research?
It's a newer frontier of research, I guess. Um, sort of, there's some of the studies that are going
on sort of defining how, uh, let's say a acute or a chronic state of neuroinflammation or I guess
just systemic inflammation or any sort of systemic perturbation, whether it be occlusion or even
in the brain, like a stroke and how it affects sort of blood brain barrier permeability. And I think
there's, there, some of the, um, studies are starting to find that like, uh, uh, uh, local occlusion or
stroke, um, within the brain sort of leads to a leaky, excuse me, leaky vessels, uh, around surrounding
the brain, which then, um, sort of give rise to a leaky blood brain barrier. Um, but I think a lot of
those, the mechanisms as to how it occurs is still being sorted out. So yeah, it's, it's, uh, it's still
somewhat of a newer field. Yeah. There's, um, uh, one of the other students in our lab,
our lab, like I own it, the lab that I work in, um, he studies alcoholism, um, and its effects on
gut microbiome. And then it's tied in systemic inflammation from that to, um,
um, endoplasmic reticulum stress response and very specific neurons and the cerebellum and
somewhere in the cortex that I don't remember. Um, but yeah, I don't think they, they know exactly
why the systemic inflammation targets those specific neurons or anything. Um, but as Nick alluded to,
it's kind of a new emerging thing of how the systemic inflammation may cause a quote unquote leaky
blood brain barrier over time. I was just going to say, yeah, it's, uh, you know, the blood brain
barrier itself is still pretty ill-defined as to, you know, what it is. So that's always a tough one
to tackle. Yeah. There's some astrocytes and parasites and neurons near them. And that's basically
it. It's a, it's a little bit confusing because, um, the brain is full of, of micro micro blood
vessels. And, uh, how is that separate from the rest of our vasculature system?
So they have wrapped around those capillaries, um, are the end feats of the astrocytes, right? So
kind of these glial cells that clean things up, take care of some neurotransmitter, uh, recycling and
things, um, and act as cells to keep neurons happy. Essentially, they have a lot more function
than that, but, um, their end feet wrap around and couple with another set of cells called parasites,
um, and form these tight junctions that limit, um, what can cross in those areas that a little
more than they, let's say a capillary and a muscle. So, so the, so the blood, the blood vessels are wrapped
so neatly that there's, there's very little, there's, um, there's sealed containers. It
is branched through.
So how much of it is an effect of, um, you know, uh, crossing the blood brain barrier because
we do have fenestrations in the brain that actually are, um, that's how like, um, you know,
the, the, uh, some parts of the brain like, uh, can, can release a gonadotropin and, um, can
also have, um, essentially have reception areas from, from the stomach to, to signify
like some kind of satiation or not, uh, using ghrelin and leptin. So, uh, is, is it possible
to kind of like give some proportion as to, uh, how much of it is crossing the blood brain
barrier and how much of it is, uh, going through the fenestrations?
Sorry, but how much of, um, what is getting across?
So I was, I was under the impression that some, some, um, you know, cytokines actually
kind of, uh, uh, crossover or, uh, into the brain from, uh, other systems in the body.
Um, I could be wrong because I joined in late and I'm trying to catch up.
So, but yeah, I guess like my question is kind of related to how much, uh, those, like
if those cytokines are capable of, uh, crossing for, um, is there like a proportion that we
could put to say that, you know, this percentage has the ability to cross the brain, blood brain
barrier and the other, it can be, um, simply passed through the fenestrations, which are
a blood capillary system that are exposed to the brain matter, or at least like the, uh,
uh, the, the brain itself, if that makes sense.
Oh, that's a, that's a good angle that I never really thought about is that, you know, most
of the things that we'd be inducing is sort of a systemically based perturbation.
Yeah.
At the angle of, let's say, you know, where do the, uh, cytokines come, uh, in order to
get into the, uh, different neural circuits.
That's just a good idea.
Sort of looking at, uh, let's say you have some sort of perturbation that leads to, uh,
to a systemic amount of inflammation, which then could increase the permeability of the
capillaries surrounding the different neural neural networks, I guess, or the neural regions.
And so that you don't necessarily have, let's say, an increase in local release of cytokines,
but rather you sort of have a flooding of the, the different, uh, synaptic spaces, I guess,
with, uh, systemically derived inflammatory cytokines, which can then change the function
of them.
That's a good idea.
So I looked up the Wikipedia article for the blood-brain barrier, uh, just to, uh, because
I think it's maybe 10 years since I looked at it.
And, uh, it says the blood-brain barrier, or BBB, is the highly selective semi-permeable
border of endothelial cells that prevents the, that prevents salutes in circulating blood
from non-selectively crossing into the extracellular fluid of the central nervous system.
Um, and, uh, so, like, when I read that, I was like, it, it's basically endothelial cells.
So, like, what, what COVID-19 does is it's, it's, it's, it degrades your H2 receptors and
destroys your endothelial cells.
It destroys the tissue.
So that, so that, that, the viruses, when they cause these cells to burst, are destroying
those endothelial cells, and they're just, like, spilling straight into the brain's, uh,
um, uh, extracellular fluid.
And, uh, that was good.
This is a good little think tank for, uh, putting ideas together.
And I apologize, I gotta jump off.
I gotta call at 7 o'clock.
I gotta go over some sleepy and EEG data.
But, uh, yeah, thanks, guys.
Uh, if you're still here around, uh, when I'm done, I'll jump back in.
Yeah, I think we'll be here till 12.
Uh, thanks for stopping in.
Thanks, Nick.
Yeah, so it's popcorn and style.
Uh, we've talked about it a lot so far, but, uh, any questions, any topics you want to bring
up?
Go ahead.
Yeah, so I was, uh, just listening very carefully and not, uh, as a, just a, just, uh, also
just, uh, layperson and a very, uh, uh, uh, enthusiastic about this, uh, related.
I, uh, pick up some of what you said, especially with Nick.
I think Nick has a very good, uh, sense of what, uh, grant, what, what, what angle to,
to, to, to, to, to attack.
So that to, I mean, it's like navigating through the minds, right?
So the, uh, where the established, uh, the, don't, don't touch the boundary, but, but
in general, I, um, I, I, I was about to ask him a question on a, uh, angle that I think
I can somehow relate it to.
So where can, you know, machine learning, you know, can, can be connected to what he wants
to do, right?
So I guess he left that, that's just what, uh, you know, I was thinking in general, maybe
somewhere he, he mentioned the priming of drugs, drugs, taking, taking, taking that drug,
some, some, some sort of a database of, uh, uh, candidate of, uh, molecules or something.
Is that one use, uh, you know, meaningful angle or maybe some, some other, like, I mean,
the, the, the, so I guess this is Mike, uh, can you confirm that this is, this discussion
is, uh, logically related to our earlier room with, uh, sound that, uh, the COVID-19, uh,
actually affects the brain.
Is that, uh, the, uh, the, the cytokine and the inflammatory, uh, type of, uh, you know,
affects these, uh, cicadas, the, the oscillatory rhythm and affects sleep, for example.
Is, is that, uh, the, the question of where is relevant?
So I, uh, I was tracking most of what you said until the last sentence and then it sort
of fell apart for me.
Could you maybe, like, rephrase that a little louder and, uh, like, yeah.
Right, I was such a, uh, yeah, so, okay, I'll repeat the, uh, the last part.
So I was asking you to confirm that is the, is the current discussion related to, uh, an
earlier discussion we had with Dr. Sam Moore that, uh, he briefly mentioned the, uh, COVID-19
effects of brain, of, uh, the brain, uh, yeah, so I guess I was, uh, just asking you for
that confirmation.
I, I don't think Nick was here for that and, um, I, I, I don't, uh, know that, yeah,
I don't, um, see a direct connection to the, the previous conversation.
I, I don't know if Brandon wants to talk about, um, uh, how, uh, he's seeing people use, uh,
machine learning to, uh, in, in the context of, of, uh, neuroscience.
I can give you the little bit that I know of it, at least that, um, we've used, so there's
a software called, not MaxTrack, um, I'll have to look it up, but anyways, it's essentially
instead of us manually digitizing, um, these rodent limbs, whether they are swimming or running
or walking, um, we can train the, the neural network to recognize the limbs automatically
for us, um, which for me saves me, I mean, weeks and weeks, if not months of worth of work
of, um, analyzing rodent behavior manually.
That it, once we taught the, the, the program, um, to, to recognize these limbs and the program
after so many passes that we've told the computer and the program what it's looking at, um, it
just, we can throw all of our behavioral videos provided the cameras are set up similarly, um,
um, and get automated, uh, quantitation of that rodent behavior as long as you've trained the,
uh, the program for it, which is extremely helpful, yeah, because it saves months of time.
So, is it called a mouse move?
Uh, no.
Sorry, I will try and look it up here as we're on here.
Yeah, that's fine.
Thanks for recording.
All right, so, uh, uh, other application of machine learning, in fact, like, I think
it's pervasively used in, uh, uh, signal analysis.
So, let's say that you have implants, so it's not just something related to neural link, but
this is done regularly to kind of diagnose the, the, uh, effect of, like, or at least like
the, the mutual affecting of different functional groups in the brain, like whether you have
a knockout model, uh, like, that's, um, infused with, with a retrovirus or something that, but
there is always, like, a study to, to, like, there's always a mechanism to study the electrophysiology,
uh, in vivo.
And one application of machine learning that I've seen, uh, that's pervasively used is that
and, and spike sorting.
So, let's suppose that you have, you know, multiple, like, trips or tetrocystic mouse brain
and it will be incredibly difficult to try to determine, like, you know, which neuron
is firing or what location.
So, you can apply, uh, different clustering mechanisms like k-means or, or a mixture of
Gaussian systems, uh, to essentially, uh, cluster your neuron, like, the signals that you're getting
so that you can identify how many neurons are, are firing.
And you can also apply PCA, um, principle component analysis to, to reduce the dimensions
because you'll be listening to, like, the chatter of, like, lots of neurons.
So, there is a possibility of picking up a single neuron firing from the tetro, or you
can have, like, what they call local field potential, which is, like, when the constellation
of neurons are firing and have, having, uh, or, like, oscillating the, the, um, or the tetro
disimplanted.
So, it has wide application when it comes to decoding or, uh, I guess, like, decoding is
a highly debated, contested idea based on our discussion from yesterday, but if you want
to understand, like, uh, which neurons are firing, it, it, it, or, like, how many neurons are
there that, you know, that you're picking up based on your electrode positioning, um, machine
learning has a lot of input in that regard, if, if, if that answers your question.
Yeah, that's a very, uh, thanks for, for, for, uh, uh, information.
I, I think the, um, the thing you mentioned, uh, all sounds familiar.
I mean, PCA, that's a basic, and, uh, yeah, so there may be also, you know, uh, all the energy
spectral type of, uh, analysis, uh, reduction of, uh, dimensionality and, uh, unsupervised
learning, and, uh, yeah, so that definitely can, I can see that it's applicable to fMRI of,
you know, the neuron or EEG data and for the signal extraction.
But for me, I mean, those black box type of approach, it, uh, will be definitely, uh,
I'll be helped, greatly helped with, uh, uh, some of physiology and, you know, physics of
type of, uh, reductionist, like, uh, understanding available, right? So, which is already connected
to which, which is already understood, and, uh, yeah, so it's, it's interesting. If there's a paper
that, uh, I mean, I don't know if this, uh, direction, how this direction related to Nick's, uh,
uh, interest in those, uh, inflammatory, uh.
I don't know if Nick was just, I was trying, it looks like Brandon was going to say something.
Oh, I just, Frank, I found the, the software I mentioned. It's called Deep Lab Cut, um, and it's
actually free to download and everything. Um, I forget who developed it, but yeah, you just Google
Deep Lab Cut, and it will come right up.
I was just going to say, I, um, I think that, uh, uh, Nick randomly threw out, uh, a new topic
that was related to a project that he's, he's considering to propose to get funding for. So, um,
it might have been a little bit, a little bit random, but it's also something that is,
is in alignment with, uh, with his, with his interests. Does that answer your question?
I think of, you know, I, well, I'm just, uh, trying to connect something I'm familiar with
the current discussion. Yeah, thank you, thank you all. I mean, it's, it's so fascinating.
So, but for me, the, so, I mean, in terms of, uh, general, very general, um, questions, the, uh,
again, it's, uh, it's, uh, uh, uh, let me, let, let me think of a little bit, then I'll come back.
So, yeah. Okay, no problem. So, um, let me go ahead and, uh, why don't I just, um,
uh, you know what I, I would, uh, so, so Brandon, I, uh, I noticed that, um, uh, your, the,
the profile that you've shared is, is very interesting. Would, would you, uh, care to
share a little bit about the work that you do and, and, uh, what your interests are?
Sure. Uh, yes, I'm a PhD student, um, at the, and I work in a spinal cord injury research center.
Um, one of the things I really like about where I'm at now is, um, we have a basic science,
uh, building, um, on one side of the street where we have all our animal models and
in vitro models. Um, and then literally across the street, we have our rehab hospital, um, where
physical therapists, the MDs, the neurosurgeons, um, clinical researchers all work with spinal
cord injury patients, um, rather kind of your run-of-the-mill approved rehab stuff or for,
um, clinical trials or new experimental studies. Um, so that's really helpful.
Uh, my interests really lie within, um, proprio spinal neurons. So those are neurons that are
completely contained within the spinal cord. They don't project to the brain. They don't
project out to the periphery, to a muscle or anything. Uh, and the reason I think these
are interesting is most spinal cord injuries are incomplete injuries. So some of these axons
or the projections of these proprio spinal neurons remain intact, which leaves you some, uh, I'll
say, quote unquote, intact tissue, um, to relay signals past the injury, either to the brain
or descending from the brain or the brain stem down to, let's say, the control centers in
the spinal cord for the legs. Um, and what we don't really understand, which is what I'm working
on is how, after these injuries, even though we have these intact projections, um, how do,
how does the morphology of these neurons change? How does their connectivity change? Um, does that
change very quickly? Does it change over time and does it settle down? Um, if we do have some
neuroplasticity, does that circuit look similar to the logical state that we might be familiar with,
or does that circuit look more pre-injury like, um, and uninjured if we provide a pharmacologic
intervention or some sort of rehab rehabilitation therapy? Um, so we're, yeah, really just trying
to unravel what spinal cord injury induced plasticity looks like, um, in these proprio spinal
neurons. So what are, what are the real, what's the real chemical, uh, so by what's the real
biological process happening with, with neuroplasticity? I mean, you can take
that question, I think, a number of directions. Um, so at least related to spinal cord injury,
right? Right where the injury is, um, you have a capitation that forms, so you have neurons
that die, glia that die, um, you have blood vessels that are disrupted. Um, then that really
gets walled off by, um, what we've termed a glial scar. And you gotta think anything that
was connected to or connected with those neurons that died in that area. Now I have to
try and reform new connections. Um, plus, as we talked about a bit ago, there's this widespread
systemic inflammation that also occurs with that. So we're not talking just about, uh,
neuroplasticity in the area with neurons trying to connect to new things or find new pathways,
um, to relay information, um, but also centers very far away from the injury site.
So if we're talking an injury at the bottom of the spinal cord, um, we'll see changes cortically,
which is as far away as you can get in the central nervous system. Um, and trying to understand
that I think will help guide, um, therapeutic strategies going forward. Okay. Um, I, I apologize,
I apologize for, for missing part of that. I, I got a message from someone that I might
be dating. I don't know. And I, I missed part of it, but I, I don't know if you covered this.
I want to ask, um, how important is, um, so neuro, so neuro, so if we could talk about neuroplasticity
again, um, this is something I read about a long time ago. And the idea is that your brain
can, can learn new things, right. And, and, and, uh, that you're not, you're not necessarily
stuck with, with what you learned when you were young. It's a, it's a sort of vague idea.
And, and, but we're, but you brought it to a very specific, uh, a specific area of study
that is not, it's not high level, you know, book stuff for, for, for, you know, someone looking
for, for self-improvement. You're talking about something very, you know, it's very specific
and very medical. And, and, um, and so, uh, you know, I'm, I'm just thinking like, okay,
well, it is, is, is a, is a big part of this just having to do with how the brain, uh, is
able to make new memories. Is it about like the neuro, the neuro, the neuro tissues, uh, the
environment and, and, and whether, you know, new protein synthesis is happening or, I mean,
I guess one topic has been brought up as to whether new, new neurons are able to, uh, uh,
replace, uh, dead neurons or something. Like it's, I'm a little bit vague on the topic
and I'm going to try to pay, I'm going to try to pay attention this time. If you want
to respond.
Yeah. All good, man. Um, yeah. So again, I'm a, a neurobiologist. So I think very medically
about these things. Um, I know if you're running around clubhouse, you'll find some neuroplasticity
rooms, quote unquote, um, that don't, aren't talking about the medical definition or how
a, a medical scientist may think of them. Um, I guess broadly the way I think about it,
right. As I can have, there's some areas, the brain that we're pretty certain can form new
neurons. Um, but let's say you've had a stroke or brain injury or spinal cord injury. Uh, there
don't seem to be new neurons that just form and fill in that area to fill in the dead, to replace
those dead neurons. Um, so I mean, really broadly, it is the brain or the spinal cord being able
to change itself over time based on a new input, um, that's provided. So that may be that, you
know, if I'm, I have neuron A and it connected to neuron B before, and I learn a new skill, neuron
A may now connect to neuron B and to neuron C. Um, or maybe neuron A just, um, really solidifies
its connection with neuron B when I learned that new skill or, uh, new information to form
a memory. Um, or it could be that neuron A connected to neuron B and C. And now when I
form that new memory, neuron A doesn't need to be connected to neuron B anymore, um, because
that maybe introduces some noise into that memory or that new skill that I've learned. Um,
and I can think of it very broadly like that of the nervous system's ability to change itself over
time based on an input or an insult or something. Um, I think the flip side of that, that doesn't
get caught a lot, um, is it this plasticity could also be a really bad thing, right? So if you think
of somebody that has chronic pain, um, we would call it neuropathic pain. So it's induced by the
nervous system. There's not really structural tissue damage anymore. Um, that, that's neuroplasticity
that's occurred because those nerves are either overactive or they've connected to new neurons.
Um, so there's more, you know, susceptible for pain signals being sent and recognized for some
reason. Um, and while that's neuroplasticity, it's not a good thing at that point. So Brandon's that
they exhibit some kind of same way as, uh, which is like by producing more AMPA receptors and,
uh, vis-a-vis, um, having like, like a CFOS expression into that, that will go some kind
of, do they have like the same kind of plasticity much like the cortical? So this is kind of a
crux of spinal cord research. I suppose is for whatever reason, it is not as far along as,
uh, let's say cortical circuitry or like sensory systems in neuroscience. So if you're
studying vision or taste or smell or something like that, um, you would assume because they
are still neurons in the central nervous system, they have some similar properties. Uh, like
we know the neurotransmitter phenotypes are very similar depending on where you're looking.
Um, they have, they come from similar embryonic tissue, which would again imply that they have
some similar characteristics to one another. Um, they are still definitely able to change.
We do know that. I just don't know that for various populations, anybody has nailed down
the exact mechanism. I imagine it's still AMPA and MDA dependent calcium influx, um, at those
synapses. But again, for whatever reason, the spinal cord field just hasn't moved as quickly
as cortical circuits or, or, or sensory systems. So, um, so, so I, I, um, so I guess the, the AMPA
and MD, MDMA receptors would be, uh, changing the, the, the fastest, whether they're, whether they're
going to be, um, accepting signals from, from, from one neuron or another or not. Like, I guess they
could be, uh, blocked with, with the calcium or something and, or they could be open. Maybe you can
expand it. And then, so that's like, there's, that's like, you know, there's a lot of change
happening at the receptor level, like really fast and short-term. And then that, the, the, the longer
term, uh, memory might have more to do with whether there actually is a, um, a, like, uh, an actual
synaptic connection between the dendrite and, uh, and another cell. Is that right?
I think you got the gist of it. Yeah. So this NMDA AMPA receptor is calcium dependent, right? So
anytime a neuron starts to spike or send an action potential, um, there has to be calcium influx and
that it's, which is a good thing. It helps the neuron, um, get to its potential and fire. And the
more that it fires and the post-synaptic cell responds, you get long-term potentiation, um,
which is those neurons starting to solidify their connection together more and more.
I think that was most of it. Okay. And so I'm just feeling like the whole, like,
you know, back when this whole movement, this positive psychology movement, movement around,
around, uh, neuroplasticity started, there was this huge emphasis on, uh, oh,
your brain can make new neurons and, and like, and in retrospect, I'm like, why is that important?
I don't, I don't know. So if I remember correctly from, oh my gosh, I mean, classes four or five years
ago now, they, like you are in adolescence or maybe even at birth, you have the most number of neurons
that you will ever have. And then it is essentially autophagy and, um, other cellular death mechanisms
that will start to get rid of neurons that you don't need anymore. Um, and hopefully that doesn't
happen too fast. Cause then you have Alzheimer's or some other neurodegenerative disease.
And also, yeah. So Steve, sorry. So on the, on the YouTube, there's this, uh, uh, pruning, uh,
the video that, uh, I think the age is four and it reaches, reaches the highest point and the turning
point. And then the pruning happens until, uh, 18 or something. And then stabilize into a dog's
like brain. Yeah. Just, uh, side data. Yeah. So synaptic pruning is, uh, more rampant like in
kids that are like brains. I mean, the, the neurons are like really highly connected and they don't
actually go through the, make fun. I'm mistaken. The brain actually goes through some, but it's not
like from synaptic pruning changing, I guess, I guess like to stem cells and stem cells that can.
Right on. Um, so, uh, so I guess I'll share it since, um, yeah, I'm, I'm going to record and
publish this. So I'll share some of my ideas. Uh, so I think that, um, so I, so I, I, I'm going with
the hypothesis that a bit of information in the brain is, um, is a coincidence pattern, you know?
Cause, uh, so there's, there's, uh, the book, uh, the neural basis of free will by Peter, uh, TSC,
he says basically neurons detect information as a coincidence patterns. And, um, he doesn't spell
it out exactly, but I think that, yeah, like a bit of information. So like a coincidence patterns,
like if you can, if, if, if we're thinking about an artificial neural network at the first layer
of the artificial neural network, that first layer is going to detect lines and edges,
right? Just basic stuff. And then another layer is going to detect higher level features.
It's a hierarchical model of learning. And then, so the idea is that so information for the brain
at the lowest possible bit, bit rate is just like a coincidence pattern. It's, it's to have
two things, uh, two, two neurons in a, at least two neurons within a certain frequency range, uh,
and, uh, a certain spatial parameter firing at a lower, at a lower level, or maybe at the input level.
Um, and, uh, that coincidence pattern is, is a bit of information
in the brain. And, and then our, our brains are basically, uh, um, processing bits of information.
But, um, so that's, that's the first, is the first, first idea. I'll go ahead and pause there.
And if anyone wants to reflect, like, I don't have much to add. I've just never
thought of it in that way. So I have to sit with that, but I like this idea.
And then, uh, the next idea I wanted to share was that, um, so there was a paper that, that came out
where they were saying that, um, the, uh, that there's a new hypothesis for, it's, it's sort of like
they demonstrated a new hypothesis. It's kind of an old hypothesis for short-term memory. So the old
hypothesis for short-term memory, um, it's like, so you, so if you need, if you need a short-term memory,
it's like, if you need to remember a phone number that lasts for 10 seconds. But, um, but if you
stimulate a neuron, you know, it's gonna, it's gonna, you know, maybe it, it fires and, and, uh,
it's, uh, it's, uh, the fire, it's, you know, it's, it's two, I guess between two and five seconds is,
is, is, uh, is, uh, the, uh, when it's gonna fire. And then by the time it's ready, you know,
it has, then it has to go to, um, uh, through, and maybe, maybe, maybe, maybe I can ask Brandon
to maybe, um, add some clarity to this, but, but after it goes through this, uh, firing process,
it has to go through like an inhibitory, an inhibited state for a little while, and then
it resets. And I guess it's like after 10 milliseconds, it's ready to go again, something
like that. But that's not, that's not long enough for, for a long-term, uh, as far as it's not long
enough for a short-term memory. 10 milliseconds is not, it's not 10 seconds. It's not close.
Um, so, so for, so for our human, so for our brains to remember, um, something for 10 seconds
or longer, like a phone number, the idea is that you'd have to, um, is, is that the neuron would have,
is that neurons would have to, uh, talk to other neurons to keep that pattern going. Like one neuron
would say, okay, I'm gonna, I'm gonna say what the pattern is for 10 milliseconds, another, and I'm
gonna say it to you. And the other neuron has to say, okay, I'm gonna say it back to you. And the
other, and the neuron, and maybe you have a neural circuit that basically repeats the same pattern
over and over. Um, so that, that pattern can persist for, for 10 seconds. And, and that's the
sort of, um, hypothesis, the old hypothesis is, is, is, and, and, uh, that seems to be,
I would, I need to find that paper so I can share it with you folks, but, um,
what short-term memory is. So I'll pause right there and give a chance for people to, to reflect.
If, if the, otherwise it seems to be, uh, tangible, right? So there should be, uh,
circuitry that, uh, identify just have, uh, uh, uh, uh, you know, uh, signature, uh, 10 seconds, uh,
time, uh, uh, time, uh, I mean, temporal, uh, uh, characteristics, huh? I, I, I guess I'm asking a
question. Is there experimental proof already? Sorry, Frank, can you say the, the question again?
Sorry. I, I was just suggesting that the, um, uh, what the, the, the theory Micah, uh, mentioned,
that seems to be, uh, uh, quite, uh, uh, uh, you know, uh, it's good. It should, it should,
should be, I mean, experimentally can, can be easily, uh, uh, verified, right? So just, uh,
identify patterns that, uh, identify circuitry that has, uh, uh, times, uh, typical time,
like 10 seconds, uh, to look for. I, I was asking that, uh, has people look into that already?
Yeah, has already data available? This is something that I study or that I, I really look for. Um,
so one of the, the harder things, at least right now, technologically is, is to record from
ensembles of neurons in very different areas of the nervous system, right? Like, so the way that
Nick who was on here does it, is if you take a brain slice or a brain stem slice, you can record
from neurons that are within that slice that's, I don't know, probably 10 millimeters thick or
something. Um, right, but that doesn't mean that you can record from, or stimulate in the cortex
and record from these very specific cells that you're interested in the brain stem. Um, so it's,
I think what you're talking about is, is feasible, but for these bigger, longer circuits, uh, when
you, especially when you're talking about memory, right, where you have to go research memory, but
hypothalamus of some sort cortex and probably a number of different areas. Um, and there has to
be integration of all that across both sides of the brain. Um, it's, it's hard to do that study
perfectly at least right now, but you could have, again, a slice or some number of neurons in these,
um, microfluidic chambers and connect them together and, and work it that way. But for
these big, large behavioral memory circuits, uh, it's a little harder. We just kind of have to
extrapolate at this point from those, those smaller preparations.
So I thought it was really interesting in the book, uh, by Jeff Hawkins called, um,
I don't know if anyone here has read it. His, his new book is called, does anyone know the name
of his new book? I'm blanking on the name. Let me just type it, let me type it in the computer real
quick. Jeff Hawkins brain, uh, on a thousand brain, a thousand brains. Yeah. So, uh, so what we,
what Jeff Hawkins is, uh, suggesting is that, uh, if you, your neural columns are organizing your,
your brain activity in a multimodal way. So if you, if you're looking at your phone,
uh, you would have, um, one or more neural columns would be, um, would be managing the,
the concept of the phone at a high level and integrating, uh, all the different modalities
of the phone, including its distance from, from your head, its distance from your hand,
uh, if your hand is on the phone, where your fingers are. Um, and, and, uh, it kind of has to
be that way. Cause if you're like, if you're sliding your finger along the phone on different
sides of it, your brain is predicting what you might touch, what it might feel like. And if there
was like a bump, you would notice it immediately cause your brain is, is predicting that. And I
guess, you know, a prediction for a neuron could be like, you know, like, um, it might be like
something like, um, the dend, the, the, the, the, the dendrite firing, uh, uh, in a forward, uh,
direction towards the, uh, towards the, the, the, uh, the axon body towards the soma sort of to
prepare the, to prepare the neuron for, for action, for the action potential to fire. And, um, so that,
that is sort of what I've heard is like a neuron predicting that it's going to fire, uh, or getting
ready to fire. And, and so that, so that prediction, the fact that your, your finger,
your brain is predicting what your fingers might feel is like saying, okay, well, um, your neuron,
your, your, your, the neurons in your, in your somatosensory cortex perhaps, uh, are getting ready
to fire and the neurons in your visual cortex are, are getting ready to fire. And, uh, and in all the,
and all, in all the modalities, you know, like the, your, your audio cortex and, and, um, and your
thoughts about the phone and, and, and they're all being sort of, um, integrated and managed, uh,
maybe by one, uh, one or more neural columns that are sort of maybe, maybe, maybe many neural
columns at the same time, but, but, but maybe all these neural columns at the same time are sort of
creating similar models about what's happening, about what you're focusing on. And, um, and then the,
there's sort of like process of, of neuronal deduction where then, where the neurons are,
um, voting on what is, uh, is the most likely, what is the most likely situation that's, that's
happening. What was the most likely to be the correct model or prediction of the, of the reality
of what's happening with, with all your senses. And, um, and, uh, but this is like, this is something
like, so neural column is, is many layers of, of, uh, of micro, of, of, of like a micro cluster of,
of neural circuits in a, in a way. Let me just pause. Like, I haven't heard the, the, a few of those
terms before, but there's a, a similar thought process in, um, motor control and motor learning,
where let's say the, we'll say the cortex, but there's a lot of things that control locomotion
and motor output, but, uh, we'll say that the, the cortex decides, Hey, I don't know,
let's say throw this baseball. And it sends a copy of that command down to the spinal cord to get
out to the muscles and the arm and the trunk to coordinate everything. Um, but at the same time,
a copy of that command is sent, uh, I believe to the cerebellum. And then once you have feedback
from how that baseball throw felt, um, what the outcome was of your baseball pitch, um, your, that
those, the outcome is compared to that efference copy so that you can make adjustments hopefully over
time to that motor outcome. Um, so it seems like a similar paradigm, at least for whether it's memory
formation or, um, the, uh, whichever paradigm you just mentioned in the book. Um, so, so the, the,
the Hawking's paradigm for a thousand brains is the, um, he calls it the, um, um, right. He calls it
reference frames. Uh, and, um, so, so reference frames is an idea that's similar to, um, understanding
the relationship between place cells and grid cells in the interrenal cortex. Do you know,
do you know about that one? Uh, I do not. Okay. Well, um, so I guess, uh, I will try to describe
it not being an expert on the topic, but, um, I think that, um, so, so, uh, the, the basic,
the basic, so just to start with the basic idea of, uh, of place, I'll just for the whole group
is, um, uh, and I hope I don't mess this up, but I might be, I might mess it up. So, so a mouse can
move, a mouse can move, uh, into different, uh, rooms. And in, in the case of an experiment, uh,
some of the rooms might, might shock the mouse. There might be an electric zap and, uh, some of the
rooms might, um, be very pleasant. The mice might, might find food in, in some of the rooms and the
mice can tell which room that it's in. And, um, but not only that, the mouse can tell, uh,
where it is in the room. And, uh, so if you're, if you, if you're sticking electrodes into the
mouse's brain, the mouse can tell if it's, um, if it's on the, the, you know, like for example,
I think you're going to have place cells basically referred to, um, the mouse is what the neurons
are lighting up that tell the mouse where it is in the room relative to the, the different walls
of the room. Um, it's what, what it's, what its place is within the room. And then the grid cells,
uh, uh, are this, uh, hexagonal pattern of cells at a, at a large, on a larger scale,
um, across the interrenal cortex. And I hope I'm not messing this up really badly, but, but the,
the, um, but, uh, but they basically help the mouse to know which room it's in.
And so the combination of grid cells and place cells is like, one is you have like with grid cells,
you have like a reference for what room you're in and with place cells, you have a reference for
where you are in the room and what, what your orientation is. And, and I guess it's thought
that there's a similar, uh, concept happening where, so the, the, um, the reference frame is
what, which, which grid you're in and, uh, the, um, that's the frame. And then from that reference,
you, you, you can figure out, um, also which, uh, which, which room you're in and which part of that
room you're in and with the, with the place cells. And so there's, there's like a, there's a weird,
a relationship dynamic and it's, it's sort of like, um, the, the grid cells are going to be very
slowly changing and very stable and the place cells are like more like shorter term information.
They're going to change very fast and they're going to, um, because, because the mouse is
constantly moving within one room. And, um, and so, uh, what they're looking, what they're hoping
to prove right now is that there actually are, um, either grid cells and place cells, uh,
throughout the neocortex or, or the functional equivalents, uh, there of place cells and grid
cells. And, uh, it is, it, uh, it kind of looks like there might actually be grid cells and place
cells everywhere in the neocortex, but, but, but I guess it's, it's still an area of research,
a new area of research. And, um, but the, but the idea there is that, um, you are, that all the
thoughts then are basically like all of our thoughts are basically that, you know, like,
I'm, I think it's, it's, it's a common story. We've heard that the brands are for movement,
highly coordinated movement specifically, um, you know, like, like planned movements, um,
where I, and it's not just like, I need to face where the sun is. That's what a tree does. I need
to face the sun. It's like, I need to, uh, walk across an environment and away from the other animals
and towards the food. It's a really complicated, highly coordinated movement. Right. And, um,
so that's what brains are for. But the idea is that like, now maybe every single part of the brain
is literally for a movement and maybe every single thought we have is a movement involving the motor,
involving, involving motor neurons. So like, I mean, at some point we, we, um, you know, uh,
we had the, the brain, like there was a, the motor cortex, everyone knows there's a strip.
It's a motor cortex. Right. But, but, um, and then, and then at some point people were like,
you know, okay, well actually we have a layer, we have a layer that's the motor layer and that
goes everywhere in the brain. It's the fifth, the fifth layer of the brain. So, so we had the motor
cortex and that was supposed to be one strip. And then we have the motor layer, which is the entire
fifth layer of the brain. And now it's like, well, we'll shoot. Well, like every, like everything is
like every, every thought is basically a movement in one sense. That's, that's like where it's going.
Like, it's, it's, let me pause for a second.
Yeah, but they actually located those cells in the hippocampus, most specifically like the C-place cells
are kind of a ramp and all over the cortex. Um, yeah, that will be something that will, that'll,
I'll be very interesting.
So, a lot of things have been, um, discovered about the hippocampus that, um, people have wondered
if that is, this applied to the neocortex. And, uh, and, and, and so we've, we've talked about
place cells, we've talked about grid cells, but another thing is, um, uh, vesicles. So, in the
hippocampus, it's, uh, it's been shown, uh, a long time, since a long time that, that, um, you know,
a, a neuron has, uh, uh, multiple vesicles and, um, and there's this thing called, uh,
multiple, multi-vesicle release. Uh, it looks like, uh, abyss, you were going to say something
on that topic. Go ahead.
No, I was, uh, I was applauding, uh, because, uh, so yeah, the multiple vesicle release is, um,
I think it, it has something to do, like, with the presynaptic, post-synaptic, um, uh,
strain relationing, because, like, uh, like, strengthening of relationship, because, uh,
you essentially release vesicles to, to induce post-synaptic potential, or inhibition, for that
matter. Would you, would you say that one more time? This is like, this is important to me.
Oh, so, so, I was under the impression that the vesicles are, so vesicle, when you talk about
vesicles, I guess I may not probably, uh, directly on this, but my understanding is that the vesicles
are sort of like the lipid bilayer, um, bubbles that contain neurotransmitters that will be released
to the post-synaptic cells. Uh, so whether they can, they can induce, uh, post-synaptic potential,
or, or inhibition that's, that's up to the neurotransmitter, because, like, if you have,
um, um, dopaminergic, um, uh, vesicles, they'll probably induce post-synaptic potential.
If you have GABAergic, uh, uh, um, neurotransmitters inside the vesicle, they can also,
they can, they can inhibit post-synaptics, um, you know, but I, I guess, like, when you said something
about multiple, multiple, uh, vesicle system, I was, I was, like, uh, trying to differentiate
whether it's, like, a new thing, because this, this vesicular release of neurotransmitters is
a well-documented case, or is it, like, any different? So, okay, so here's, here's a really
interesting thing, is that it, it's well-documented in the human, uh, hippocampus, but it's, it hasn't
been well-documented in, in the neocortex, and it's been an, it's been sort of an unknown, but, but recently,
um, I, I wrote an article, uh, uh, that, that was about research that had been done that essentially
proves that, um, that multi, multi-vesicle, uh, so the, basically, you know, we have between, uh,
throughout the neocortex, neurons have, on average, like, 2.5 vesicles per neuron, or, or between zero and
three vesicles, uh, per, per neuron, and, um, and that's important because what the, what the
multi-ves, what multi-vesicle release means, and, and I, so your description of it being, like, um,
sort of like a lipid bubble of neurotransmitters is my understanding, uh, as well, um, I wish I knew
more about, uh, how, how much the, how different kinds of, like, so, so my understanding is that,
you know, you basically would have, um, you'd have cells that are, are gonna just regularly release
a certain kind of neurotransmitter, and, and I'm sort of interested in, in how often the neurotransmitter,
uh, that cells, uh, release can change, can, can you have an acetylcholine, um, uh, neuron, uh,
change sort of spontaneously to, to be like, uh, uh, uh, what is it, uh, a glut, a glutamogenic
neuron? Brandon, do you know the answer? Uh, yeah, so there, there's a, uh, a little distinction here,
so I haven't seen, and most of my work is in the spinal cord with motor circuits, but, um,
you don't typically think of neurons changing their, their transmitter phenotype, right? You
don't think of them as changing from releasing GABA or being GABAnergic to being glutamatergic
and releasing glutamate, um, but what can change, and this is, again, with pathologic states, um,
um, is you may get transporters that change, which will affect the concentration gradients
of various ions, um, inside and outside of the cell, and if you've flipped those concentration
gradients, um, then there's a chance that, depending on how much it's flipped, um, that a,
let's say that GABA bound and allowed chloride to release from the cell, I don't, um, somebody can
correct me on that or Google it real quick, let's say that you're neurotransmitter bound, and before
it caused calcium to release from the cell, so it made the cell more positive, right, because you
had a, a negative, um, I'm sorry, chloride, uh, a negative chloride ion flowing out of the cell,
um, but in this pathologic state, um, the concentration gradient is flipped because the transporter
that normally keeps, um, chloride in the cell, um, the opposite way now allows chloride to flow into
the cell when that neuron is depolarized, so that now rather than a negative chloride flowing out of
the cell, um, and that channel is depolarized, it flows into the cell and actually makes the cell more
negative, so I haven't seen or heard of transmitter phenotype changing, um, but what that transmitter does
in some pathological states can, can change the flow of ions, which may change whether that transmitter
is, um, inhibitory or excitatory. Wow, that's, I'll pause, go ahead, Abyss. Sever, severing, like, on the axon
or damage that, do you, do you use, like, organ? Last question is that if, if there are gendered
spines, I don't know if you've heard about, it was like a recent publication that said that, um,
layer two and layer three pyramidal, uh, cells in the corduodendritic top. Yeah, those are fun
questions, um, so they definitely have dendritic spines, right, if we label proprio spinal neurons
that I work on, they, you have a label that will fill the cell well enough, you can, and you have the
right microscope, you can zoom in and quantify the number of dendritic spines and the shape of those
spines and decide how mature or immature those spines are and how many of them there are. Um,
the organoids, I, I don't think there's anybody actually here that does organoids. I know that's
kind of a, a developing area. We can talk more about organoids later on. Uh, and then Abyss, what was the
last question? Yeah, I'd have to see what they mean by dendritic computation, but, uh, inevitably if
they're, if, again, they're still neurons, even though there's a little bit of difference between
the brain and the spinal cord, at some level there's computation occurring, um, whether it's
in the dendritic spines, I don't know, to, for a neuron to do the computation of all the inputs
that it's receiving, that is a variety of inhibitory and excitatory, and then decide if it
has enough excitatory input relative to the inhibitory input to fire, to send its signal,
wherever that may go with the correct timing. Um, there's computation that has to occur in each
of those neurons somewhere, whether it's at the, the dendritic spines or not, I, I don't have a direct
answer. Yeah, I'll be really interested if that's kind of ubiquitous. Sure. Um, well, next time you come,
I do have, uh, a lot of thoughts on dendritic, on dendritic computation, so we, so we can talk more
about that next time. Hey, uh, thanks, babies. Uh, I, Brendan, I, I have, uh, just, uh, like, uh,
hit on this, I mean, uh, found this, uh, uh, by Google that, uh, there's, uh, regarding the earlier
discussion, the short, uh, short-term memory, the, the, it came out, like, March, this, uh, just last March,
uh, target, the title of the paper is Targeted Photo Stimulation Uncovers
Circuit Motives Supporting Short-Term Memory. So I just, uh, uh, browsing through, I saw the, the
technique they use is a two-fold-down imaging and, uh, post-stimulation, uh, on mice. I found just,
you know, relevant to, uh, they identify some kind of a circuitry that, uh, carry, you carry
thirst time less than 10, 10 seconds, I think. So, uh, in your, I mean, when you had time and your
comments will be, uh, uh, you know, uh, welcome. And so, so for me, I mean, Micah mentioned that
I have this, like, why I'm interested in, as a general, uh, interest, uh, you know, hobbyist,
because, uh, I'm losing my sleep for almost three. I, and the maximum I can have is, like,
very accurately, I can only sleep, like, four, four hours, and very accurately, no matter what,
what time I go to bed. So even right now, I feel like I'm, you know, um, losing my, and I can
sense my memories, uh, yeah, short-term or long-term. But, uh, it's something interesting
important and scientific questions. And I mean, I think if, if, if you can verify that, Brandon, that
they actually, uh, find, maybe find the right, uh, experimental apparatus for, to address the
question that, uh, important question. Yeah. Frank, I haven't seen the paper, so I can't comment
directly, but, uh, I presume based on the title, it, they probably use some type of optogenetics and
drove using a specific wavelength of light, whichever neurons they were interested in.
Um, and then had some type of calcium imaging, which would tell you in another area if the
neurons downstream of your neurons are firing as a result of driving your neurons to fire,
or maybe inhibiting your neurons. Um, but I'd, I'd have to look at the paper a little more.
What was the, the title of it again, Frank? Sorry. Oh, yeah. So the, uh, it's available on the
bio, uh, bio, uh, bio, uh, bio archive. Uh, so the, the, the first name of the author is D-A-I-E,
D-A-I-E, uh, the last name of the first author. And the title of the paper is targeted photo stimulation
uncovers circuit motifs supporting short-term memory. Uh, came out of the, uh, uh, Janelia, uh,
research labs, uh, uh, Stanford. That is, that is in fact the, uh, what I was referring to earlier
today. So that's, that's, uh, that's what I was talking about. Yeah. Good. Yeah. That's a good
sign. Yeah. So, uh, Martha, you are familiar with their work? I've read this paper. Yeah. Um, that's,
that's what I was referring to when I said short-term short-term memory, uh, appears to be, um,
basically, uh, activity in, in, uh, in neural circuits. It appears to be, it's, it's the idea that,
you know, one neurons activity might last for 10 milliseconds, but, uh, but you have,
if you could have one neuron repeat the same message to another neuron, the other neuron repeat
the same message to another neuron. And that, that can continue for, for 10 seconds. And that neural
circuit, uh, would be responsible for short-term memory. That's super important though, in terms
of like, if we're getting, if we're able to get like really super high resolution, uh, and high,
uh, not only high resolution, but also like, um, just getting a ton of data from, um, um, a neural
circuit basically by, you know, with, with, um, you know, I guess, I guess you can, you know, like,
like the idea is that a neural circuit, uh, is where, where we might find our thoughts basically
in the firing pattern of a neural circuit. Uh, and, uh, so that's, that's interesting for,
for the future of, of brain computer interface to every search. Yes. So, I mean, uh, uh,
this is extremely, uh, interesting. Uh, I learned a ton and, uh, really appreciate, you know,
experts here, you know, uh, Brendan, Mike and Nick. I mean, uh, Mike, are you, uh, uh, going to schedule,
I mean, is, is your room like, uh, has a, uh, uh, uh, fixed the schedule or, uh, uh, I saw this one
like in hallway. I mean, uh, uh, when you, when you schedule it. So, uh, what I'm considering on,
um, I, um, I, I, I haven't decided yet, uh, how often I want to do this, but I want to do this very
often. And, um, I, uh, I, I'm thinking if I, if I can have like a happy hour discussion,
just open for anyone to, to talk on these topics, like I would love it if this topic was always
happening on Clubhouse and I could just come in or out whenever and, and just join this discussion.
But, um, what I, what I've noticed is that there, there is not literally someone hosting a
neurophysics and nerve gear type discussion every single day in Clubhouse. It doesn't have,
and I'm surprised because it's the only thing I look for. And, uh, and I hope to see it every
day, but I haven't been. So I'm like, okay, well, maybe I should just do it every day,
but only as long as I can, as I can, I can do my work while at the same time. So if I can, um,
if I can, if I can do my work and, and just sort of like have this happy hour discussion
happening in the background, then, then it works out. Uh, and then, and then maybe I'll do it
every day, but, um, I haven't committed to that yet, but, but I think it's going to be often.
Yeah. Just one quick, uh, suggestion that, uh, it's all sounds great. I will, you know,
love to attend your happy hour discussion and, um, just listening, I guess the, uh, one quick, uh,
suggestions, uh, you can make, uh, uh, I, I see you're also in the neurosurgery and there's a
multiple, many, even, uh, Xiong's and your nation, uh, clubs, right? There, there are already
subscribers, followers. If you, I mean, in case you, it's not what you want to do. If, uh,
have a more attend, uh, people attending, you can just post, uh, to those rooms as well. So there
will be, I mean, of course the small room has us, you know, advantage of, uh, more diet, deep dive,
right? So it's up to you. So, um, what I've noticed so far, if I, so I'm a member of like a
lot of clubs and that, and it gives me the option to, you know, there's some huge clubs. And so,
uh, I could start groups under those clubs and that notifies a huge number of people,
but it doesn't let, it doesn't let people who are not in those clubs see, see my events,
unless I, unless I'm an admin, an admin of those clubs. And if I'm not an admin, then, then,
uh, I'm, I'm, yeah. So it's like, then the people in the hallway who are not inside a club,
don't see it. And, um, I don't know what to do about that yet. I'm just, I'm just, you know,
it's like, it's like, uh, you know, a club gives me access to a large group of people, but restricts
me from a general, the general population. So I, I'm confused about why it's that way. Yeah.
Uh, can you, I, I, I, I'm just, uh, I haven't started a room yet. Can, can you like start
within the club with a few experts, then open as people come in and open it up to, to all,
I think that's options available, right? So what I, so what I'm saying is that, um,
if I start a room in someone else's club and I'm not the admin of that club, then the only people I
invite are the only people who I can invite are people who are already members of that club.
And they only get a notification at the beginning. And that might, that might be enough to start a
conversation that has, you know, 200 people in it. And, and maybe I ought to do that, but,
um, but if I, but that means also that people who are not members of that club already won't discover,
um, this conversation. And so for that reason, I haven't gone that route yet. Um, I haven't,
uh, uh, sort of, yeah, confined myself to someone else's club just yet for that,
basically for that reason. I see. Yeah. Frank, thanks for, um, making me aware of this paper.
I'll have to dig into it a little bit over the weekend. All right, cool. So, uh, yeah,
so the paper, uh, you can read the whole thing if, if you, uh, so they published it twice. So you
can download the PDF if you go, if you go into bio or XIV, but, um, but, but if you go to,
if you see the paper on neuro, they're going to want to charge you money. So it just depends. I mean,
so I guess some people have access or some people have like, you know, your, your, your company or
your university will give you, will pay for it, but it's also available for free. That was my point.
Yeah. Yeah. If you, uh, ever have issues getting two papers for anybody, um, there is a website
called Sci-Hub that is all for open science. Um, it's, I believe S-C-I dash H-U-B. And I think it's dot T-W
now. Um, but it gives you access to most papers that you may not have access to. Um, if you're,
not at a university or something. Right. Uh, yeah. Did you get interested in neuroscience and
all of the like? Um, well, I mean, um, like, like, uh, like, uh, like many kids that grew
up in the 1980s, uh, uh, I watched movies. I was kidding. I, you know, the fan of science fiction
movies, robots that, uh, like number five is alive. You know, do you know that reference?
Number five is alive. The sentient robot. You're lost on me. I'm sorry. That's a movie
called short. It's a movie called short circuit and short circuit too. It was a Disney movie
about a robot that became sentient. Really cool movie. Uh, if you liked movies about sentient
robots that the, um, that are really cool and, uh, and, uh, the, the kids have to protect
the, the, the sentient robot friend from, from being captured by the military.
That's what I remember, but it was funny. Uh, so then I wrote, so then, uh, like when I was an
adult, I read this book called, um, on intelligence by Jeff Hawking. And that really changed my life.
And, uh, because then I had this idea about how the neocortex, uh, could, could, how we could create
an artificial neocortex, um, thanks to Jeff Hawking's book. And, um, he just really has a, a really
great way of explaining, uh, some, some concepts and, uh, not all, it's, it's not that his book
is, is a hundred percent original. I wouldn't say that. Um, but, uh, if you didn't understand
neural networking before Jeff Hawking's, then you would definitely understand it after Jeff Hawking's.
Um, but, but, but he makes some important differences. Uh, you know, it's not like,
you know, like the, the, um, you know, deep learning is, uh, is not computational neuroscience. It is the,
the airplane of intelligence. It's, it's, it's not trying to, um, you know, like, so there was an,
so before the Wright brothers, there was this airplane that was, uh, in France that, uh, this
guy claimed flu. He claimed his airplane flu, but because he was so secretive, there's no evidence
that his airplane flew, but his airplane had bat wings, like, yeah, bat wings. Can you imagine?
And, um, so he claims it flew, but, but, um, but, but we don't really need bat wings for airplanes to
fly, right? Just, uh, flat, flat, uh, fairly flat blades, um, you know, and the airplane flies just
fine because the principles of flight, uh, are different from the, the, the specific biological,
uh, implementation of a flight in birds. And, um, and that's the idea with, with deep learning is
it's not biologically plausible because it doesn't need to be. It has the, it's supposed to, uh, grab
just, just the principles of intelligence. But, um, but so Jeff Hawkins though is, is, I guess,
the closer to being a computational neuroscientist, um, and, and, and in terms of what the, the software
that he writes while, while, you know, similar is intended to be biologically plausible and
biologically consistent, um, to really, um, uh, do intelligence the way that our brains do
intelligence. And, um, so, so for, so for that reason, he, he, he makes, uh, writing basically,
uh, studying the brain and, and, and, and, and, and, and, you know, I would just have to say that
there's nothing like the people who, who, the architects of deep learning, you know, I guess
Yanli Kuhn and Jeffrey Hinton, Yashio Bengio and, and others, many other people, those are the three
big names, but there's many others. Um, they, they all read neuroscience. They're not like ignoring
neuroscience, right? And, uh, they all read Jeff Hawking's book and everything, and computational
neuroscience. It's, it's just that, um, it's just that they're, they're really, um, they're not
trying to, to produce, they're trying to try to, they're not, they're not trying to, uh, be too
biologically plausible, but they are, they are trying to study, um, to look for the principles of
intelligence. And so, and, um, and, and both approaches I think are important. Um, let me just
pause and give someone else a chance. Well, I'm glad that there are those people that think
about these things on a much larger scale than, than I do, right? I'm, I'm just so used
to, I have this, these 200 little neurons that I study. Um, so I'm glad there are people
that think about these things on a very large scale, um, to kind of push, push the thought
process forward. Yeah. Um, let me see if we should, we should probably invite some more
people up. So I just want to like make everybody who's listening now just feel like,
you know, totally welcome because, um, this is like happy hour conversation. We've got some
intense topics, but, but you can really, uh, bring up any topic that's, that is semi-related
and, and, um, and ask any question. We've got, uh, this amazing, uh, a neurobiologist here
on, uh, with us, Brandon Brown, and he's a PhD candidate. And maybe you have, have a question
for Brandon, uh, or, or Frank or myself. Um, so I'm going to, I'm going to invite people up
to. Uh, so whenever you think that the room is not as full as you might like, uh, just think
that I'm, uh, I'm a big admirer of yours. So anyway, um, so I am, uh, I have begun to
read this book called on intelligence. It's about a guy who complains, starts complaining about
how there's a lack of uh uh operating theories on neuroscience and then he talks about um
why it is probabilistically very difficult for the brain to have come up with different processes
for processing uh sounds versus vision versus smell and that kind of stuff and then he says
that maybe there's just one approach which is sort of related to a time series time series sensor
sensory input so he even touches a time series and so on and so forth and uh then i i was uh listening
to is it um professor king uh is it i forgot his first name but then he has a room and they were
talking about uh when the when when a person or when a mouse is presented with a familiar terrain
inside a maze there's this type of like a two hertz or ten hertz uh rhythm that develops in the neural
uh uh transmission and that sounds also like some kind of a time series of uh like a singing type
of thing so um i'm wondering if um there is a formation of this type of realization that
somehow the brain sings in some sense in the neural transmission space that is a telltale sign of
um how it is processing all kinds of different sensory inputs thank you and then um
yep i may have to so i may have gotten a little lost maybe someone else wants to answer you said
something about the brain singing i definitely would like you to to restate that but let me pause
first give maybe maybe other people heard you better and dr olu could respond or someone else
um but i'll just pause for a second i'll give time to others to to try to answer i was kind of
formulating what i wanted to talk about so um i'll step in after uh maybe somebody else has a
chance to answer carl's question carl i don't know about the these the frequencies you're speaking of
um i'd have to look at the paper to to have a better answer there was one part um and if you can
clarify that'd be great that you mentioned i know senses something about figuring out how senses go
together right how all these senses are coordinated or something like that yeah it's a book by jeff
hopkins what it says is that um evolutionarily it's probably very difficult for the brain to have come
up with five different mechanisms for uh preceding uh the five different senses so then he says maybe just
one trick that we're using to process everything and then he makes a point that the um
and i i don't know if this book is scholarly uh book or i just picked it up in a bookstore
and um then he says even touch is actually time series information because if you want to just touch
something and without moving the hand try to figure out what it is it's very hard it's only by
slowly and gently decreasing the surface with your fingertips that you begin to ascertain exactly what
the surface it is and so and then sound is by nature time series um even the visual signal if it's moving
we're much more uh perceptive about it rather than a stationary image and then uh so yeah so that's that's as
far as i understand so far i i haven't watched the rest so i i i read that book a long time ago and that
was like i said that was the book that changed my life um so i understand a lot about that book but um
but what i i guess what i didn't understand is what you were taught what you were saying um and maybe
just restate what you were saying about about the brain singing okay so um i think it was the last
weekend there's this neuroscience room um and i forgot the name of the moderator his last name is king
and um they were talking about they were monitoring the uh the um and i don't know how they were monitoring
it but they found out that when the mouse goes to a terrain that is familiar that that the mouse has seen
it before the uh the uh and the more familiar it was there was this periodic firing of a certain set of neurons
and so it was not just a um uh memory forming but it was some kind of a dynamic dynamic uh thing that was
happening that reminded the that that was coins correlated to um the the mice recognizing something
that that's as far as i remember about this uh kyle i i think the the book that you you refer to on
intelligence that's a a uh first uh there was a a book by uh jeff hawkins in uh 2005 and uh the other
book that the a thousand brain it's actually uh i think a newer version yeah so uh i think you might
i won't be interested to uh get that one as well so for the um the time series i i i my my own uh
take on this but i i think so quite a legitimate uh uh conjecture right because when it comes to signals
uh naturally you know for a uh series uh expand a series uh has to uh come into play right so
uh there's uh the evidence is uh abundance right in our brain that our sleep uh rhythm like uh from a
gamma uh beta you know you know out of all these uh delta so uh also earlier discussion that uh uh
brian and uh uh product i mean very interestingly uh i mean the my thought that the short-term memory that
there's a 10 second of uh time characteristics that uh uh uh i also you know just head up upon a new
research that uh they use two photon imaging and also stimulation to study data finding some
experimental evidence supporting that uh a theory of short-term memory so to me it is that a evidence to
uh towards a uh similar theory or conjecture that i heard earlier on clubhouse is that our brain is
actually uh different size of and the levels of uh circuitry loops right so so involve uh given that
different level of consciousness whatever i mean that the intuitive way you can define it individually
uh okay so within the brain uh yeah so maybe yeah i'm just saying that uh uh it's uh to me uh it seems to
be uh legitimate and uh uh also for uh earlier interesting topic that mike uh i mean this is maybe for later
uh discussion this out of uh you you mentioned the uh light brother that the airplane right so that that's
uh i found that that you just mind-boggling the uh that it's a it's a it's some strong evidence that
uh argue against the uh the uh for the high fidelity of biomimicry so it essentially is pointing to a way
that uh we have to understand i mean biology the solution biology offered might not be the optimal one
right so if we understood the physics and the human can come up with uh even better i mean say
a cpu right i mean it has its own clock and uh also these uh anyway so memory and all this so i also
that question also uh interested me you know what the future likes right it's a it's a great discussion
so far so thank you all for that let me just um give the floor to uh dr olio are you ready with um
yeah um thanks for uh bringing me up um just by by way of background i uh do work in uh computational
neuroimaging particularly with a focus on connectomics at the macro um level using um different
modalities like mri diffusion tensor imaging fmri um particularly in the context of psychiatric
disorders like mood and anxiety disorders and uh we've done some work um using eeg to generate
connectomes and uh specifically looking at dynamic uh connectivity with eeg data especially during a
particular uh task like the emotion regulation task and we've done some interesting work showing that if
you look at these dynamic connectomes across different subjects across different time points
you can use that data to um put into a manifold learning algorithm to kind of
populate a state space that represents um the different activities that subjects are doing during
the task um and it actually nicely separates out different conditions of the task it separates out
patients uh who have anxiety disorders versus controls who don't and um i was actually interested in
your background micah because i saw that you do some work with eeg and vr and so one of the things i've
been interested in is sort of taking our initial findings um into vr to see if we can um use uh sort of
real-time data from eeg uh to feed back into the subject through vr so basically vr enhanced neurofeedback
and i was wondering if micah you've had experience combining eeg and uh vr and what sort of equipment
you've used to to do those types of projects thanks uh awesome thank you for the thank you for the
question dr i'm happy to talk about that so um there's several there's several things to talk about
so one of um one of the one of the things that i should share is my bio uh so if you go to go to
this if if if folks can go to vrma.io um and uh they should they should uh let me know it should open
a medium page let me know if uh that's working for you vic is okay please say that again i'm going
there now yeah it's it's v i have to set the switch screens yeah uh so so vrma.io is um is uh victor
uh robert mary adam dot isaac oscar got it okay and um so uh so there and then you click on the
the first uh the first see i think it's the first link it says uh link to bio it says michael
blumberg is a programmer and a journalist okay and um yep see it okay and then you're gonna scroll
down uh and you're gonna see at some point there's there's you're gonna see something that says neuro
hacks or eeg um this is gonna say it's gonna this is like it's gonna say a lot about what uh what i
worked on and what i did um and uh so i'll sort of summarize this so um in 2008 i be i became the
organizer of neurotech sf which is uh one of the branches of neurotech x which is a global
organization of of uh of meetups worldwide with uh 22 or 23 chapters in major cities across the world
and um so i was doing the san francisco chapter i did it for two years um and uh in 2018 uh every
single week um not every week but but almost every single week i had people uh coming into noise
bridge which is uh noise bridge is um a maker space also called a hacker space uh they're often
big cities um in and in hong kong and and uh tokyo and texas and san francisco makerspaces or hacker
spaces and um and people come there to write code or or to to you know do all sorts of weird things
there's often like a wood shop and a metal shop and you can make anything you want there's even
people even make uh you know fashion designers show up and they make clothes so um so i was hosting
a coding meetup though and uh i was using this technology uh called a frame which is built on
top of it's a it's a it's a a framework that uh let's makes it easy to build vr applications and now
also augmented reality applications um it wraps around 3gs which which is um uh 3gs is wraps around
webgl and uh webgl was invented to to bring uh a canvas uh to a can a canvas for 3d um for 3d
objects and and and and and and why am i why am i stumbling it was so what maybe i'm nervous uh so
no so so the it's weird it's it i'm not usually one who stumbles but um who so yeah so so webgl is
basically 3d technology for the web okay just to make a long story short so the web has uh html which
is documents and documents are supposed to be 2d and they wanted 3d so so webgl but webgl unfortunately
is is so low level that if you're just going to do one shape it's like if you just put a triangle
on the screen or a pyramid to attach a tetrahedron right you might have to write 250 lines of code
it's ridiculous so so 3ds was one of the one of many one of the first i think probably the first um
high level scripting language that made creating 3d on the web really easy and what a frame added was
an entity component system that allowed you to uh to to make your code even neater uh basically
and and also an entity component system is great for teamwork because um it's sort of um it it makes
it like you don't have to be a ninja to get to build non non-blocking high-performing code when
you're using an entity component system because uh that it does a lot it's sort of um the structure
of an entity component system sort of does a lot of that uh a lot of good code practices for you and
your team basically so you could have one code ninja and the rest of your team can can keep up with you
if you're using an entity component system um and uh so what we did was we used the brain uh so so
what i did in the beginning was that was i i brought a bunch of people together and i said okay
let's bring let's bring eeg into vr and the reason is because i i wanted to do that since i opened a
business in san francisco in 2012 and i i wanted to create an alternative biofeedback neurofeedback
salon where i was using the emotive headset and um at the time in 2012 and i was using a program
called neuroprogrammer and another program called mind workstation and creating custom
um basically custom tracks that had uh isochronic beats and i was using the line i was so there's
this guy named lennox in the 1980s and he um uh lennox uh the lennox protocol was basically um
a biofeedback uh frequency program where he was uh capturing eeg patterns and then using them to
um to change uh light basically light he didn't really have sound at that point so he's just
changing light effects like light would flash with the frequencies of your of your brain activity and
and um but he would also encode it with with with frequent with certain frequency ranges certain
frequency patterns as well and um and he he uh he reported uh that that his patients had
uh some significant success uh with their own uh in many cases with their with their issues uh you
can of course read more about lennox and his protocol but he but he he is eventually the man who invented
um transcranial magnetic stimulation uh a long time later so but but in the 1980s being able to do
you know eeg uh and the kind of thing that he was doing was was uh i guess that his kind of
i guess his setup was like half a million dollars back then but but um what i was doing was um
bringing using the eeg to drive light and sound effects to a light and sound machine and uh that
that lightens it like the total cost of the equipment that i was using was like about a thousand dollars
and um but i wanted to do it in vr so basically i would have your brain waves driving light and
sound effects and they would change what you see in here and they were encoded to isochronic beats
and um and they would they would really cause this like intense sort of like
self-awareness uh and made it like almost a meditative state and if if i change the the
frequency patterns that i was encoding of course um you know uh then um that would that would affect
that your the changes in your mental state but it was just it was very particular it was very
interesting because i began to feel as if i was listening to i began to feel as if i was
gaining some awareness over how my my brain waves were changing the light and sound patterns
and and therefore gaining some awareness over what my what my brain waves were in an abstract way
and not not in a very clear way but but but getting a sense of how my thoughts and feelings were
were sort of changing light and sound patterns and like i said it's very very weird sorry to interrupt
but did you start feeling some conscious control that um over your brain waves in terms of now that you
had this feedback yeah uh yeah and one of the weird things was um i had so i i put a blindfold on one
time and uh just turned off all the lights so i just try to get as close to zero light in the room as
possible and uh i had this visualization there's no drugs involved where i turned into um you know
something like something like an ancient cambodian statue but it was all but made out of fire and the
fire was like there's like basically the fire was different colors based upon how far based upon like
like seven different colors like representing the seven different chakras or something and and i could
change the color of the fire consciously and and basically that would change the light and sound
effects but i was sort of seeing in my mind's eye because my visual cortex was was freed
because i was wearing a blindfold and it was completely dark i was seeing my body as as
visualizing my body as this this being a fire and i could change light and sound effects by thinking
and change what i changed my my form as this sort of uh uh stat this sort of like
cambodian style statue that was made out of fire it was just it was it sounds weird but it was very
very interesting um and i had a number of other like really profoundly amazing experiences including
one that i would describe as sort of um witnessing the beginning of time
and uh i love that story but it's um it was uh i don't know if i should tell it right now but but um
it was it so how many uh sorry how many channels were you using so uh so the emotive headset is uh
it's like a it's a 16 or 14 i think it's like 14 channels and in in 14 channels inside a 16 channel
since it's had a 16 electrode device um 14 good channels and um of course you know with eeg you're
the the um the uh you know so i guess it's it's it's it's it's really removed right it's really far
removed we're talking about like uh dipole activity at a large scale right it's it's not um very specific
to your to your neurons firing at the point that we're measuring it with eeg it's like large-scale
dipole activity right it's very abstracted from maybe from from what your neural circuits are
doing what your thoughts are doing but but but maybe somehow because well the what i'm saying
is like in some sense you're you can use it's been proven that you can use um you know eeg
localization technology right where you're trying to plot where signals coming from before it triggers
a dipole um you can that that can be very accurate it's been shown by with uh like with a dbs there's
there's a study that and maybe frank wants to look this up and share it with us but there's a study
where they um where they compared the the the data with dbs and with with eeg uh to see if eeg
localization uh was correct and it correlated correctly with where the signal was coming from
in the thalamus as detected by the deep brain stimulation device so even though we are um only getting
sort of like large-scale dipole um activity it it is with eeg localization we can make predictions
about where the information is coming from and um and maybe my maybe my brain could also sort of uh
decode more information than uh from from you know from listening to the the the changes in light and
sound as my thoughts and feelings uh change and and that it's it's it's a really uh far out idea
but and i don't know um that uh you know and then the other problems are like all the noise right
with eeg and sort of like yeah that's one of the reasons why i was interested in your setup because
that's one of the problems that i've heard of when combining um you know like a like a vr headset with
with an eeg cap that there is quite a bit of noise um interfering with the signal well well in this
in this situation uh back in 2012 uh we were um i had everyone be very very still so nobody was moving
around uh because because movement obviously is one of the things that causes lots of noise
and that was just led glasses but i did want to do it interview i wanted to recreate into vr and in 2018
i did and so i what we did in the beginning was we we i was hosting meetings where i just said okay this
is what i want to do let's talk about how we can do it and so i led these group meetups and at first
we talked about uh using the open bci headset which is which is still a good idea um we had one
um and but we needed to create 3d printed parts if we were going to attach it to a vive headset
and um and like i said i kept running into people who were neuroscientists who were laughing at the
project because with vr you don't like as soon as you're moving around in the vr headset
you're making noise and it just doesn't make a lot of sense um but we we kept on like from the
very beginning people were telling us it's just gonna be too much noise it's not but but uh but
we did it anyway and and so we kept on so eventually um we realized that it was too hard to for us to do
3d printing because we didn't have enough knowledge i didn't have the knowledge of 3d printing of how to
do it and our 3d printers we every time we tried the the print would fail so around the middle of the
year we eventually um the another another group of folks bought a um at the hacker space they bought
what's called a brainduino eeg device brainduino uh and folks can look that up if they want b-r-a-n-d-u-i-n-o
it is uh you've most people have probably never heard of the brainduino but it is um there's a lot
of this there's been documented on the noise bridge website so noisebridge.net has has a lot of
information about the brainduino it's just a very obscure device it's very cheap it's like the size
of an arduino board uh and uh i think it was 300 bucks or something and um it has um like it uh
i think i think out of the box you can do like between two and four it can support either two
or four electrodes we were doing two electrodes um we had actually three electrodes but the middle
electrode was just um uh uh it was our uh it wasn't uh it wasn't uh bring it was um it had another job
i i'm for some reason i'm blanking on on uh the uh the right name for it oh gosh it's um
but anyways it wasn't bringing us signals it was just sort of like helping to to ground there's
grounding uh electrode um and uh so anyway so we had so we had two electrodes we put them on the forehead
uh the signals uh were measuring of course voltage detected at the at the surface of the skin
and then um the uh that would create uh that would the the the pro the brainduino processing
uh machine would we turn that those that voltage into an array of uh that had hex values that represented
that voltage and then we converted the hex values into uh numbers and we we there was a um
we brought a uh basically we created a server the original server was created in python
and uh the server would take those numbers and uh we we uh we we it was very easy to basically
i think we ran one line of code and suddenly we we had uh the four-year transform it's called the
fast four-year transform just with it it was like ready to go uh thanks to mint thanks to the work of
of other people and uh and uh so we had the four-year transform going and uh and we created a um a local
host and uh and then we we broadcast the signals over the case of a web socket so we decided on a web
socket to send the data to our web page uh and uh we sent it to the web page because webxr is is um is
usually it is is uh usually run webxr on a web page you don't actually have to run webxr on a web page
but um but that's usually that's the this is like the first place you would find webxr as a web page
and um i mean ultimately it's it's javascript and you can run it in a in a you could you could you
could create a webxr application with like with like react native for example uh react native with um
um um it's called react 3 fiber and uh so you don't have to use a um you know the web um
uh so to make so to make long story short we we there's lots of discussions like well well because
normally you know if you fetch if you use a web uh a website to fetch information and you're just
like fetching one thing at a time right you're not fetching you we needed a stream so we needed to
stream the the numbers that were coming from the eeg device into the website in real time and so
we did that with a web socket and we brought those numbers into the into the web page and um we we
applied the four-year transform a second time so i i i i'm always i'm to this date i'm unclear as
to whether applying the four-year transform the first time actually actually does anything because
because we really needed the four-year transform on the on the client side in the inside the website
itself so so we did it a second time uh yeah i'm that's i'm a little vague on uh and uh whether or
not applying the four-year transform the first time meant anything in the end but um but uh yeah so i'd
like to i guess maybe i need to go back and uh okay um i'd have to say that so so so this was a team
effort my contribution was mostly on the webexr side of things uh but also in terms of organizing
the group um every single week and and organizing the discussions that allowed us to figure out um
all the different components of it uh there are certain things that i um what i what i don't know
in terms of like uh our specifics related to um you know the the actual construction of the servers
that we we went through multiple incarnations of the servers and i did not write those
um and as far as why we needed a four-year transform in the server and also on the web page
i'm that i don't understand but uh but i can answer a lot of questions in terms of the the web xr code
and and um so uh the web like the a frames the client side code basically so as once we brought once
we were bringing the the the stream of numbers into the web page through a web socket from the brain
we know because of our our server uh then uh the question was okay so what are we going to do with
these numbers right we can see them in the console it's just a stream of numbers okay so here so here
was one idea so it's like we can uh we can put some shapes on the screen we'll generate a bunch of
spheres and um and we'll have the shapes move up and down and uh and this is what we did i think if you
look i i think it might be yeah i think i see the video do you see the one with the uh spheres uh no i
see the one with like the frames and i think you have different frequency bands uh represented for a
stream of frames right yeah so that so that was that was uh the later version of the project so in
the in the beginning uh i i guess i didn't link the video with the spheres here but uh oh oh actually
i did maybe i did so if you so if you search for so if you look right above the one of the frames i
think there's a video right above that it says this video is one of the first results let me see if that
works and uh that takes you to it's like a twitter link i think um so i saw a twitter link where you
have it like visualized underwater yeah yeah so so that visualization underwater is a bunch of spheres
um and that was our that was actually what our proof of that was our initial proof of concept so
that was like the very first version of it that uh that underwater is actually just a really simple
360 sphere uh just a static image this is like a 3d wraparound image uh super simple but it may
does make it look like it's underwater which was fun and what you can notice in that video is that
there's like you see this like there's this like massive slowdown in the frame right because that is
1 000 spheres it's um it's it's two basically and i don't think it's labeled at that point so
basically we had the um two electrodes and each electrode was was divided into uh five different
frequency ranges that left and right alpha beta theta gamma delta and um and then uh we had not
only did they move up and down in sort of a time series what is a time series it's a 3d time series
and so they moved up and down basically so each incoming um signal we had a stream of numbers
coming into the through the web socket and every time we got a new number we would uh use the number
that we were getting to set the height of the sphere and the height would also determine the color
of the sphere so there's always red on top there's always blue on the bottom you see that
and um but but it kept the program kept choking because this machine that i was running on was a
linux uh workstation that uh was extremely underpowered uh and uh and uh if you tried to run
that in vr it was extremely slow and nauseous and uh so eventually i tried uh cubes and then i replaced
the cubes with spheres and i got labels on it and in the video that has the planes on it that um that video
which with people if people just arrived at this room it's at vrma.io uh and you can look look for
the link to my bio but that video basically shows that you know at that point what i was showing off
was that i had this like you could you could press on that's inside it was recorded from inside the
oculus you know that was inside uh the lenovo mirage solo and if you press left or right on the
controller you could um uh you could turn left or right and that's what i'm showing off in the
beginning and then you could click you could you had a laser pointer so you could
click click on the bottom of there's the square on the bottom underneath and that would rotate the
entire entire grid uh uh sort of like so you could see it like um from another perspective
and um and uh and then you could you could teleport you could teleport around the environment
by pressing uh on the the top uh actually i think yeah we're pressing on the top of the uh the thumb
pad and that would teleport you around um and then uh you could uh uh you could walk over to the the
side of it and see it from different angles and you could so so at this point people were walking
inside a representation of their of their brain activity and noise bridge and host like this was
like the coolest thing and like nobody hardly any people ever noticed that we ever did this and it's
no i think it's never been duplicated um but um but the code is all is off is all on the web for free
and um so i have plans to basically so because functional never right spectroscopy data it can also
sort of um can be read out as a time series uh you can bait you could basically um uh unplug uh
uh uh ev data and plug in fmri data uh sorry not fm whoa whoa i meant uh f f nirs data f nirs uh data
and uh and visualize that um as a time series um another thing another thing about this is that this
was like pre um so there's something that came to webxr basically like we were maxed with this is 200 the
ones with planes is 200 different planes but um what but and at the time that we were maxing out
our like our frame rate because we you're trying to hit with a mobile headset you're trying to hit
like 60 frames per second or or um or maybe 72 frames per second so that the person use using the
headset it has a comfortable experience but um there's a new way called um uh it's called uh mesh
instancing and uh with mesh instancing instead of being limited to 200 frames uh instead of instead
of being limited to 200 objects i could have like a million 1.2 million of these uh squares and make
a really long time series and uh basically um and and still run it at uh you know 90 frames per second
maybe even you know maybe even uh you know think about making like a super amazing uh 3d um representation
of your brain activity at 120 frames per second um but we were but here's the other thing is that um
you know when you are saying we had to cut down the the sampling rate because uh the fact is that um
the amount of data that you can pull from from the human brain uh with eeg uh is uh is like
like that like it's just like the sampling i guess the sampling rate we had with the brain duino device
was something like 250 uh samples per second or something like that i i'm not sure if i'm if i'm
actually saying the right number but it was um something it was it was it was it was some sort
of uh situation where we had to like say okay we're only going to take like one out of every four
of those samples like one like one like one fourth the rate because our just our computer can't handle
input that that much input that fast our webpage can't handle it and and our um or actually it's
really i mean i think it's less about the web page and more about the the uh the um the renderer uh
in the the the the gpu that has to do the rendering on the on the uh either rendering by the vr
headset itself if you're using an oculus quest which is what what we'd be using now um or if you're using
a desktop peer of your headset which is your desktop uh gpu so um so uh if you're using a desktop gpu you
can do a lot more rendering and maybe you could do a million uh planes with a desktop gpu with mesh
instancing with uh 250 you know samples of your eeg signals with 128 electrodes uh or 256 electrodes
um simultaneously but um but i i would really like to to do that and to see that
but i don't yeah so i don't but i have no idea um if that is going to really
in terms of like how much we'd be pushing the limits there but anyway so you can get my code
uh you can see all the old code great thank you very much i'm following you now and so i'll definitely
be in touch because this is something that we're definitely working on and we're we're working
towards an actual intervention um so uh your your knowledge is uh greatly appreciated and i'll
definitely be in touch okay uh did you want me to give you the code link before you head out um
it's it's just github.com slash micah number one great thank you i'll check that out okay and uh
hey micah this uh information overload here but let me quick uh uh uh quick two quick questions that uh
so i you you mentioned 3d printing somewhere so what do you need uh i didn't get the the contact what do you
need uh the 3d printing for i had some experience with the 3d printing so that's why i'm curious and also
okay okay can you like just uh quickly uh uh uh you know uh like uh uh uh summary so what you you
said you said so there's a this emotive like eeg headset and you use it to do like vr i just want
a short summary what what's the what's the technology that you're uh you're you're delivering or
in the future all right so uh so i mentioned that i used the emotive headset with um in 2012 with led
glasses in 2018 uh i used the brain duino device which is a different eeg headset a different eeg
uh uh device it's not it's not the um emotive um and uh we and um we will i also have a number of
other devices like i do have um an email and um an open bci device and originally we tried to use a 3d
printer to attach the um emotive sensors to the vive headset and um and when we failed to do that
uh so one of my really smart friends says why don't you just use tape can i just
yeah but um but right around the same time uh we we yeah we uh the we the brain duino fell into our
hands and we were able to borrow that every week so we just use that okay so since i have to wear
these uh headset but uh you can refer some brain code let's say so there's they they they their value
adding this proposal is that uh some attention kind of a correction so what so you are using eeg and
in addition to your hands and others right so to to uh the brain hcr human computer interface
i don't know why i i wasn't able to sort of like grab your whole sentence could you say it again
uh so yeah so i guess i'm trying to get a better picture of what what what is the nature of the your
your technology is uh is is is what is the value what what is he what are you trying to uh to do right
so so for me i've had experiences wearing one of the headsets like say there's a company called
brain code and they are similar compositor there are many right so so mild so they wear this um
you know a band on the muscle so you can you know a few degree of freedom using uh emg you can control
a mouse or something right so without you basically give uh uh your hands will be free to do other
things right just that's for me i mean i think adding more degree of freedom for a human to control
the computer it's a it's a human uh computer interface type of thing so for me i mean from coming
from that angle i'm trying to understand what your uh proposal is so apparently you're using the eeg and
as a digital set of uh controls in addition to hands for example a mouse physical mouse and uh say
uh integrate that into vr and a r and uh is that uh do i understand not not uh not on so that was so
i was not trying to use eeg to enable a control interface um because uh the um so there's a story
like to i like to say when people say were you trying to use eeg to make a new kind of way to control
troll something and um there was a whole bunch of devices that came out um before we did this project
where they were saying well you can use eeg to uh to control a mouse on a computer or to float uh
to float something you know you know um you can have mind control with with with eeg and and and
these devices were cheap and they all sort of they were exciting for a little while and they all sort of faded from
from public memory but but like muse like meos that's right uh and welcome uh did you want to um
no no i'm actually i was curious because i'm in physiatry physical medicine rehab which basically we use a
lot of augmentative assistive devices and i've always been curious about uh the emg side but eegs as well
um so i i remember i think frank right was speaking before yeah yeah yeah yeah no i i i know about the
myoband uh that was made by a lab called thalamic labs in waterloo and i was hoping they would work
on it but i think they sold off the patents to someone else they worked on the north glasses now
i think amazon google bought them over so because that was a great uh way to connect on to uh with vr right
when you're in a vr space it was a great way to like navigate using emg but i was just curious to
know what the eeg you you had sorry go ahead uh okay so um uh so so so that so the way i saw it uh
the problem with the eeg was this um if you are driving a car uh you you're you might have a lot of brain
activity uh when you're learning to drive a car um but then as you get as you get because because
maybe because your brain is is is trying a whole bunch of different things it doesn't yet know
what which which uh micro and macro circuit uh patterns are going to be the right patterns that
will enable you to um to to to drive so it's over your brain is overthinking and there's two there's a
lot of brain activity but then when you get really good at driving a car um it requires a lot less uh
visible brain activity apparently if you just just um if you're just talking about medical imaging the
the people who are really good at doing something have uh less way less brain activity than someone
who's brand new at trying to learn how to do something and um i don't know if there are
exceptions to that but i think that's like i don't know if brandon or any or anyone else wants to say
i want to talk on that no i think anytime you're you're talking motor output is the end goal um after
you've learned that skill or that set of motor outputs and know how to string them together um it
kind of it's definitely less cortical input um it likely just gets offloaded to uh motor control
brain stem centers if not the spinal cord on its own okay yeah so um right um so the so the story of
that is like if you get really good at controlling the the muse headset it's so funny then um then
uh your your brain says okay well i'm gonna you don't need this much brain activity anymore i'm
just gonna have your i'm just gonna create a pattern and and your spine's gonna remember that
this pattern and now the pattern will come from your spine when it needs to come or something like
that uh but anyway and in the case the idea here is that um as soon as you get good at controlling the
muse the uh your your brain activity decreases uh and so um the reason you were able to control the
muse is because you're creating a certain amount of activity that the muse was able to recognize a
certain amplitude of of of dipole activity perhaps and um but now that that activity is no longer
happening or it's no longer happening at that scale or no longer happening in that place
it's it's not really it's not it's the there's the ability for the muse to continue to detect it is is
diminished so like the better you get at using the muse the harder it gets to use the muse you just
see what i'm saying and uh so that paradox is why i was like using eeg to control stuff no that's just
like that's bad thinking that's just um it's just not going to uh anyway so so that was my hypothesis
and so i said what i want to do instead is is i want to allow people to just passively uh
view a reflection of their brain activity that was our goal i wanted to create like a meditative state
so people could just meditate on on what their brain activity was not on trying to do anything and um
and just to maybe under maybe to sort of have this introspective uh expansiveness of their awareness
about um you know making making their own connections between their own thoughts and feelings and uh and
the the the changes in in brain activity that they were seeing in our in our program that was visualizing
the um that brain activity that's what i was thinking um and uh so that was a that is a passive
it meant to be a passive experience now what we did notice was that uh uh people would often have
these uh the more they paid attention uh in this program the more that to what was happening the more
that their their uh their beta waves would rise up high and uh the beta waves are a certain frequency
range it's usually often associated with uh with you know if you have a cup of coffee if you're really
paying attention if you're really concentrating uh sometimes your beta waves might might be more
active i guess in some studies it can be other other brain waves but um and in our in our particular
case it was beta waves and um uh so we would tell people yeah that's because you're really paying
attention um but uh it is uh it's uh yeah it's uh i mean there's a lot there's a lot of stuff that
is uh unclear in terms of like i i really don't understand how much uh noise was playing a factor into
our signals we had noise cancellation programs hardware noise cancellation programs and software noise
cancellation programs and and uh but uh it's it's just it's i i don't have a fine-grained enough
knowledge of of the system to really um understand how much noise was affecting our results or not
in a really detailed way so um so i and instead of trying to solve that there and then with with
with our primitive equipment uh we just said well we've got a perfect concept and it's cool
and uh that's where we're going to leave the project and that's where we left it i see so how
many uh electrodes now like the most recent uh headset uh so in that case we were using uh two electrodes
of the brain brain domino device uh and when in 2012 i was using the 14 electrodes of the end of the
of the emotive device so you're gradually reducing it's not increasing that's surprising i thought you
you will you will need more so it it's it's really it was uh it was really just a proof of concept
uh the next uh the next thing that i've been uh planning is to is to do uh basically the same thing
but with a different kind of sensor what is called a near sensor functional near infrared spectroscopy or
light or basically um instead of voltage we're talking about uh imaging the brain with light with
infrared light imaging the brain with infrared light but where what does it penetrate to go is it through
the skull yeah it goes it goes through the skull um so you're shining uh red light uh through the
skull and um and you have uh you put two basically two uh sensor transmitters uh on on this person's head
uh and uh one of them transmit the light and the other receives the light and um you calculate the
uh um the the basically you you calculate the uh like a sort of like banana shape for the path of light
based upon the um the intensity of the transmission um you're i might be misstating this but um it's it's um
like you can you can send the light deeper you can send it um you can it's but but what i'm saying
is like there's a there's you can estimate the curve that light is traveling between one sensor between
the sensor and the sensor functional is it functional fnirs yes yes that's right okay uh and um so there's
many different categories of light imaging but but fnirs is the most it's like the most um uh maybe the
most common and maybe like the bottom tier um but uh but the potential of fnirs is you know like
you know like uh is is great uh there's also hd dot hd dash dot that's another cool thing there's
this company called open water that is um is uh so again they're they're using fnirs and they're using
ultrasound and um they're they're using they're doing holography so when you shine when you shine
light through the brain so our brains are our brains and our bodies uh are basically to infrared
light they're basically transparent they're basically as transparent as jellyfish uh to infrared light so
light just passes the red light passes straight through the human body and uh but it reflect it
it refracts a lot so it's um so it it uh it scatters right and uh but if you can if you could
accurately reverse the refraction of the light um then uh then you're doing the the exact thing that
that is holography that is holography is the reversion the reversing the reflection of light
and producing an image from from that reversal of of light scattering and um so uh with that technology
you could uh recreate extremely detailed images of the human body especially if you have a very fast
and very big uh camera sensor or cmos chip and uh so um and if you like you could use you can use
ultrasound to also extend the depth uh of the of the light um and uh i i wrote about this no no i'm saying
that i i wrote oh you wouldn't recommend it no no no it's just as long as you're familiar with the
frequencies you have to be very careful with the ultrasound in the brain but as long as you're okay
with the just to make sure the frequencies that's all i'm not familiar with the frequency numbers but
i'm sure i could track it down for you yeah um i mean to to your point um you can use ultrasound to
do surgery it's just it can be a scalpel it can be extremely dangerous so right um but but if you but
if you're if you are um if you're doing things exactly right like using the exact frequency of
ultra ultrasound you can uh instead of cutting a neuron you can just stimulate it you could just
make it fire uh at least that's whatever at least that's what i've heard i haven't i've never done that
but um but i mean i guess it's similar in concept to to uh to making a neuron fire with optogenetics or
or or making a neuron fire with um neural dust or or or with a lot of electrical stimulus so um
and uh so so the idea and so but the question is like okay well how can we see a neuron firing if
we're not measuring electrical activity and um so but it but it turns out that um uh neurons uh
what i learned uh and i interviewed this guy on uh in a podcast that i did and he was a he's a
uh i i've interviewed multiple people who do uh imaging with with light and uh he was saying that
uh uh what i learned is that neurons do change shape when they fire they expand they contract and um
uh and uh and and and uh you know and when they fire of course that they they um they use up oxygen and
uh and uh atp and um i guess uh oxygen and glucose and atp but um but anyway they need but then blood
flows right then blood has to go and bring new oxygen and um and so these different uh these changes
are are the kinds of things that you would be able to to detect if you had um if you had some
uh if we're talking about uh imaging with uh with light and basically um you know reversing the
reflection of the light or decoding the the the spectrum of light that is uh is changing as
as light moves from one sense as moves from the transmitter to the sensor uh and so the potential
uh basically with merrill-jepson's technology is um to go extremely deep into the brain um maybe
maybe all the way to the thalamus and to actually see uh you know if if it's fast enough if it's like
laser fast maybe it we could see neurons firing in real time but whether it's fast enough is a big
question you know mri is way too slow to see neurons firing in real time right but but um
but yeah so that would be that would be profound because because you know right now if you want to
if you want to know if a neuron fired you have to be like really close to that neuron uh because
because uh the the electrical uh signal uh has a very short range right the actual action potential of
it um so i mean you could figure out if you i mean if you're going to know in real time like you could
figure out uh with eeg localization where a signal came from but but um but not in real time right so uh
so that that's really interesting is it so it's because uh we have with neural link this this uh technology that
there's no uh there's nothing else that comes close to the resolution uh or the speed and the
resolution and the amount of information uh combined i mean you can you can like i said you can stick
electrodes in the brain but you don't have you're not getting as much data uh as you're getting within
something like neural link uh which is which is which is sticking electrodes in the brain but it's just
it's sticking a lot more and it's and they're a lot smaller and it's it's uh it's just it's better and
it's generations better than uh than than something like utah ray or dbs it's just uh it's just a
massive leap forward um but what is just really interesting that potentially uh someday we may also
do this uh wirelessly this basically collect the same amount of data that we're collecting with
neural link um non-invasively with um with uh holography and and functional neural spectroscopy
and um and ultrasound uh and that that includes uh doing closed loop therapies um and and right and
like you know when you know i i believe that that uh that i think was max tegmark the guy who
is leading the neural link project that um he i believe he said something like there is no other
possible way to to detect a neuron firing in real time unless you're going to stick an electrode like
right up next to it like you just can't do it from outside the brain but but uh but but i think you
can if you uh if you can do holography you can reverse the reflection of light and you can do that
process um at at laser speed you know if you can do it as fast as as uh uh you know 200 times faster than
an mri or something like that but but um so maybe so 20 so maybe 20 years from now um you have a you
have a device that can do exactly what neural link does but but uh but you just but it's outside your
brain it's outside your skull i'll pause i'm i'm curious about what kind of um spatial resolution
would be required so for example there are so many snap connections and if you're to do reverse
imaging of whatever you get at the sensor level you try to reverse transform on that
there's going to be so much detail that you need to worry about
is it is it even tenable would you say it again i'm sorry
mike i'll let you take that but i gotta head out it is a touch past midnight here and i need to be
in the lab far too early tomorrow all right thanks for thank you uh definitely for coming
great that's really good yeah i appreciate it thanks everybody for hanging out and listening and
contributing hopefully i'll uh talk to you guys again soon thanks great thanks for the
room continues um for folks who are staying and sorry about that uh so are you are you staying uh heyman if
you want to i've got i've got pinged to another area with the biofront so i've got to quickly drop by
i'll drop by once in and out sounds good okay all right all right so let me uh see if we want to invite
uh mike so uh see so the question that you uh you presented uh is uh fascinating intriguing that uh uh
i'm a little bit uh optimistic than your estimate of 20 years i think for this i mean the you know just
see the number of nobel prizes came out just you know it's it's all medicine nobel prize now
be it physics or it's all related to imaging and uh you know ways of uh providing tools to study
biology if i mean that's a weird brain and neuroscience um fall in right in some field so you uh you mentioned
various uh techniques uh like ultrasound and uh uh infrared and uh also laser maybe so
uh uh apparently the the time scale we want to do it uh uh without uh uh non-invasive right so also
uh as high a faster and better resolution apparently that's the challenge in school so your estimate is that
uh uh right now what's what's your take on what if you pick one what would be so you there's also
another clarification you mentioned something hdd dot i didn't catch that part so
uh so i mean so if you look up uh if you do if you research the topic of imaging with light um there's
many different uh methods and um so if you look up hd dash dot um there's there's uh an imaging
technique a light imaging technique that is called hd dash dot which is uh which some people claim has
advantages over over efner but you'd have to research that for yourself so uh shorthand for uh high
density diffuse optical tomography for imaging thank you and so what's your pick then what's your uh so
you you mentioned uh so for me i mean my gut feeling is that for ultrasound this uh mechanical signal
will be slower than uh light electromagnetic uh signals right so they don't it still depends on the
uh to see the subject we're studying and if we're studying uh uh the potentiation of neurons
they go both ways right so what's your take on i'm not sure for the future what is what is them
what's the one of the if you pick one what will be uh you think will be the best i mean ways to
what's my favorite like um tech like neuroimaging technology is that is that the question yes yes
you you mentioned a few yeah um well i mean it's a bit like but i think it's it's like it's a little bit
uh um i mean i guess i guess your question is a little bit like betting on horses like betting on
companies right do i like you know the the approach that the narrowlink folks are taking more or the
person open water is taking more um but i but i think that um uh that it's not it's it's really
like the way i see it is it's uh we've got different tools we've got different tools and it's like it's
like it's for the service for me i don't i'm not sort of thinking of it in terms of like betting on
horses i'm thinking in terms of of um we've got uh you know you could do surgery with with um with
the scalpel or you could do surgery with um that that involves deep learning and you can do surgery
with a microsurgery robot and does the surgery for you you just have to approve the surgery ahead
of time if you're a neurosurgeon uh there's yeah so i'm just looking at thinking about it's different
tools in the toolbox and uh and in that sense um there's no i don't really see a competition here
but um go ahead to kyle if you want optic so obviously optical imaging is a possibility but what
about for stimulation is there other than maybe introducing chemicals that are photoreceptive to
allow for stimulation are there optical techniques that can directly stimulate with high precision
because that's probably a big barrier is it it's been solved but you know it's been solved so uh the
approach that uh that mary lee jepson talks about uh often in her talks that you can find on youtube
is that she's going to use um ultrasound to stimulate the brain um ultrasound can can do all the stimulation
that's necessary oh i i don't know if it gets down to the neurotransmitter level but but uh um i
think it gets down to the neuron level i i uh so i'm yeah you've reached an area of my knowledge
that i'm a little bit gray on but but but um i but what i do uh think i know is that it's it goes
down to the neuron level as far as whether it goes down below the neuron level i have to i have to find
out i have to do some more research it's basically just using ultrasound and so um so actually why don't
we just look this up while uh let's look up the precision the precision of ultrasound so um the
investigated 3d ultrasound system achieves an intramodal accuracy of one millimeter radioe
in a controlled laboratory setting uh so this identified systematic and random errors required
an optical cleaner tumor volume to planning the target volume margin of about three millimeters
so okay so let's consider that okay so what so let's actually look at the um let's look up uh what
is the size of the of a vesicle um extracegon vesicles what is this so i guess we're talking about
30 to 100 no okay so actually what is this okay let's look up for the size of a neuron first of all
um just for memory so we're talking about a neuron can range from four microns to 100 microns so it's
at like the multi-neuron resolution um yeah uh okay so let's see let's let's see if um okay let's
look this up can i'm gonna say can um can a neuron be stimulated with uh ultrasound so a focused ultrasound
excites action potential firing in mammalian peripheral neurons in intact tissue ultrasound
neuromodulation huh so i guess uh let's let's look at the um the authors believe that their system
can serve as a powerful tool in studying the effects of ultrasound on neurons and brain circuits
uh somebody somebody uh okay so we've got a new listener but um yeah so if just uh it may take off
so let's look at this real quick um a review of results mechanisms of safety
uh so ultrasonic neuromodulation is rapidly growing field this paper is dated 2019 so the review
summarizes findings um the uh which u.s mechanically interacts with which uh the mechanisms by which
u.s mechanically interacts with neurons and uh and could affect firing are presented so okay so this
paper if you want to look it up um i just actually i just googled uh can a neuron be simulated with
ultrasound and it yielded like uh a lot of cool papers and uh so if you wanted to do that but um i
found a paper called ultrasound neuromodulation a review of results uh mechanisms and safety and i
think that um that's something that that you would want to look at kyle but um answer the uh question you
had thanks for googling that for me sure i was just curious um i've been interested in optical imaging
techniques and i'm trying to kind of you know tangentially a little bit but um it's a stimulation
side which is still the most difficult part and if you're comparing neural link to optical imaging
techniques that's that's one advantage that it has it's still not down at the resolution of individual
neurons or synapses but well okay but so the thing is like um there's a big limitation now for for um
for for neural link though is that is that um you you can only uh stimulate something that that the is
um uh through the electrode right based on where the electrode is whereas um let's say that you're
let's say that you are uh analyzing large-scale brain activity with 10 000 different electrodes but
your your computer modeling suggests that the ideal place to stimulate the brain in order to create the
response that you want is far away from where your electrodes are implanted well in that case you that
uh you might want to use uh ultrasound just to do to stimulate the the neurons that you want to stimulate
um instead of using your electrodes to do the simulation so and and uh and and going back to frank's
point in terms of like which which which which tool is going to win uh i i think people will use both tools
actually i i expect future neuroscientists to combine both tools basically so for a long time i've
seen i've been thinking more kind of the nanotech side will probably win um once we can figure out how to
grow kind of a neural mesh within the brain grow a neural mesh yeah so you can think of a engineered
basically that can just inject it and it will grow whatever structure we need this is this is definitely
like 50 years out but i think that is the kind of holy grail because then you can basically have a
secondary neural network alongside and do whatever we need with that now corporate processing before it
leaves the brain through whatever interface we have and then it can be targeted throughout the brain
uh so have you have you read the um the novels by um science fiction author um he created the nexus uh
series uh his name is uh romez nam and uh so in the nexus series novels it's a trilogy um the nexus
trilogy he uh he he there's a neural device that he that people inject called nexus and it's a bunch of
um nano it's a bunch of nanomachines and the nanomachines will float through your blood and
um and then they'll get into your brain
that's how how they do that is is that well i i uh okay so well i'm not going to try to answer
it's science fiction right but um but so they'll they'll they'll get into your brain and they'll
attach themselves to neurons and um and then they'll begin to create a wireless they'll begin to create
a wireless connection that uh between reading your neurons and uh stimulating your neurons and and
sending that information wirelessly to other people who have nexus and it creates a telepathic
communication between yourself and and and everyone else around you in a local area like a mesh network
uh who's connected to nexus and so you so as you walk through crowds of people who are also injected
with nexus everybody's sharing each other's feelings and thoughts
and uh this is uh yeah it's happening like uh i mean the clubhouse is uh is making another direction
progressing in that direction so if so if you want if you really want to geek out on cool next
generation ideas uh he's uh he's i think i think his books are up there with like um you know with
like william gibson's novels with like the matrix and we're just like we're just waiting for someone
to create like the equivalent of the matrix films but based on the the rama's non novels nexus novels
uh and uh it hasn't happened yet but it's uh it's bound to happen eventually yeah thanks for that
i'll add it to my cue um another thought i've had kind of as a precursor to that would be implanting
maybe a combination of uh electrical and magnetic stimulators like a high resolution kind of fabric
basically microwaves magnetic fields electrical fields do that kind of stimulation and it could also
um be useful for um sensing as well but again this is just a crazy idea i don't know if anybody's
trying that um wait would you would you say that again microwaves what so you can imagine wrapping
the brain for what the uh the membrane is but get within the membrane encasing the brain and so you
have like a fabric fully encompassing the brain or encompassing enough of the brain that you can use
basically reverse tomography with electrical fields magnetic fields to stimulate different
portions within the brain and also those same kind of that same kind of fabric could also be used for
sensing as well i'm talking like millions of kind of pixels across this fabric um i don't know how
deep it could get into the brain you can definitely get cortical level at least well i love i love that you said
that you're describing a project that exists uh so if you go to uh furoxa.com that is called uh furoxa
f-u-r-a-x-a and uh that is furoxa microwave imaging uh and uh yeah so super cool idea um but it is it's
like one of the best it's one of the coolest ideas i'd have to i'd say this idea ranks up there with
open water and uh neural link it is uh yeah it's super cool um another project that exists is um
electrical impedance tomography combined with deep learning so if you look up eit and deep
learning uh that is another potential world changing medical imaging technology so now we
have four right actually five you can clear hd dot um and uh and there's more
so uh there's one uh that you can and you can uh so a long time ago people were trying to prevent
people from from having their arteries collapse and so they they invented this stent
that you uh you insert this this thing into your jugular and you put it you know somewhere in
your heart and then and when you pull it out it expands and keeps your blood vessel open
well somebody had the bright idea to put electrodes in that stent
and they invented stentrode which is like so now you can stick a uh um you can stick stentrode uh
basically into your jugular into your arm and push it up into your brain above your motor cortex above
the motor strip i mean and um and uh and when it gets to that through the vein above your motor strip
you you pull it out and it expands and to allow maximum blood flow so you won't ever have to worry
about a stroke in that particular area but um but i mean i guess well i guess it could be blocked but
it's like max it's like the maximum it's push it's pulling open your your vein but the point is
is not to pull up pull open your vein to the maximum extent because because really it's about putting
electrodes up there and uh so without brain surgery you can put you can basically have the the same kind
of like electrode array that you might have with um with ecog or with with brain gate if you look at
brain surgery um with stentrode which is so cool it's like it's like people at home could could make
their own stentrode and uh without brain surgery it's cool but it's like i mean i wouldn't do that
if i were you just like let the doctors do it were you the one talking about brain gate in the room like
yesterday or the day before it came up uh because we had uh we had one of the people who worked on brain
gate with us uh yesterday uh so there was i was involved with in a conversation where somebody else
was talking about their work on brain gate that electrode idea that's that's really cool it's close
to to what i was thinking for but still you're you'd be stuck within the blood vessels i mean you can
get pretty close so i just really think we need to get down to like neuron synapse level stimulation to
really get some of the crazier ideas working like being able to do like ar vr through a brain
interface i don't think we can get there with with kind of multi-neuron stimulation um so i mean um
without without disagreeing with you um so okay so so there's a study that came out where they showed
that uh so you know with what you can get with eeg is pretty limited right but you can do uh you can
do something if you have if you have a lot of electrodes you can do something called eeg source
localization um that is the exact phrase look up eeg source localization and um and uh so they had
someone had a someone had a like i think it was like a dbs implant which can not only uh stimulate
your brain but it can also uh read uh and so it was able to um uh basically collect data near uh
person's a person's thalamus and that person and they were using uh they were using eeg and eeg cap at
the same time and they and they they did eeg source localization to figure out where the signals were
coming from and some of the signals were coming from the thalamus and they were able to prove
that the eeg source localization was actually correct um by comparing it to to the data that
they were detecting with the deep brains with the dbs device the deep brain simulation device
and um so so what that means though is that um is that uh even from outside the brain you can figure out
where signals are coming from and if you have if you have stentrode uh in your brain if you have
uh you know you're then the quality of signals is is much better that now you're talking like
ecog level quality of signals and even though that's not next to your to your neurons to measure
their firing in real time which is the holy grail of this is what neural link cares about
even then you can sort of like use that technology if you if you had um
um you know maybe maybe if you combine like stentrode if you had multiple stent
centrodes in multiple locations and multiple uh blood vessels and you also had like eeg you
could get really precise about where your brain activity was was coming from like really precise
um depending on how many sensors you could put in there uh then um then uh then it's and and uh
so let's leave aside you know stimulating the brain electronically right and and just think about
stimulating the brain um by stimulating your your um from outside so so you know for one you know your
eyes you know every with a vr headset you there's a whole lot of brain stimulation coming in from your
eyes right that's taking up like two-thirds of your brain activity i guess um so that's that's
that's number one so vr like that probably like it might be more it might be easier to stimulate your
brain with with through your eyes and then through um through direct brain stimulation right yeah and
this is this is a weird idea but like for for what what we could find out is that even is that you
you put all you put 10 000 electrodes in a human being with neural link and uh and you could stimulate
the brain directly through 10 000 different electrodes simultaneously but you might but we
might find out that um the the highest bandwidth way to stimulate the brain is still through the eyes
through through through like vr that's a weird idea but maybe because maybe like because the
evolution just adapted the brain to to to have this like high bandwidth port this high bandwidth
path and that just works best um it's a weird hypothesis but um but i think it hasn't been i don't
know what the argument against it yet that disproves that so i don't know but uh it is true and also
at the cortical level you really can't get down you can't reuse the brain's own
visual system to decode the signals so you know at the cortical level that kind of stimulation you might
be able to say there's like some kind of objects in this part of your field of vision but you can't
stimulate it down kind of at the pixel level to get really high resolution images through through brain
stimulation i've always thought that we need to get into kind of spinal column if we can stimulate at
the spinal column level before our brain actually starts interpreting the signals it's probably a
much high precision control um uh so that i my my hypothesis is consistent with that um and in in
terms of um you know in terms of what i've in terms of what i've uh studied uh there's this um there's
an example of um of two girls who uh their brains are connected they're they're twins and they're born
with their brains like physically connected their skulls are are connected right and they're they're
specifically connected by the the thalamus and um uh there were news reports uh that these girls could
see through each other's eyes you could show a card to one girl and the other one would know what the
other girl was seeing if she she closed her eyes and thought about it and um so the idea there was that
that um they were because their brains were connected via the thalamus and the thalamus is where your where
your your senses uh uh travel through the thalamus uh including um you know your your your your your visual
cortex your audio cortex um i mean your eyes and your ears and your your and uh and your somatosensory
cortex um your sense of touch and your taste um they all trap those senses travel through the
through thalamus through the brain stem um and uh and then they go into the cortex and and and i've also
heard that the um that that there's five pathways that the the olfactory uh bulb uh travels into the
brain and one of those pathways goes through part of the one of the five pathways that the that the
olfactory bulb travels that it does actually go through the thalamus um but the other for the other
four do not so you often hear that oh the olfactory the smell doesn't go through thalamus well part of it
does uh and little known fact part of it does and so so the idea here is that um uh if you're going to
implant uh information into someone else's brain like something like an image um maybe uh the brain stem
is causing is uh as a potential target to try um but uh but we need a lot more research to to uh to validate
that and i so i mean i'm not like i in just like i'm not for sure why kyle saying we we could not
stimulate uh micro columns directly to to uh to create images um i i what i would think is that we
haven't figured is that is that we have we don't have a study yet that's been published showing that
that has been uh been figured out but but i i don't want to use the word it can't be done because
because uh maybe maybe it can in the right way to do that just hasn't been figured out yet
i'm not saying i can't it's just um i'm based on my understanding and this is i'm not a neuroscientist
at all i'm coming more from the artificial neural networks side it's that at that level it's already
so abstracted from the raw signals that you know maybe there's particular neurons or particular clusters
of neurons that you could um trigger for particular objects or particular you know patterns or something
like that but it's it's so far removed from the raw signal coming in from the from the optical nerve
and um again there's even more processing going from the retina all the way through
um that i think you'd end up needing so many um electrodes to kind of you know it's like each
electrode will control one particular object that you can sense in your visual field not necessarily
controlling particular pixels to kind of have like an overlay that that's my hypothesis at least
so um the only thing about that is um so i mean yeah i mean i think i was i think i was 100 in
agreement with you about five years ago but um but since then it's kind of like um i think that so
i mean the deal with uh actually really was really four years ago so really since so 2017 was when uh
jeff hawking was released to his uh his first paper on um how how micro how his theory of micro
columns uh how they um basically how i'm sorry just columns columns in the neural network how they
can organize functionality of the brain and so it was 2017 when i read that and that's when i sort of um
this sort of like really messed up the picture quite a bit because um yeah i mean like i said
the girls were connected by the thalamus and maybe that was the clue to how you could transmit images
from one part of the brain to another but then but then um uh but but uh but the thing is like well so
maybe a neural a single neural column is organizing the uh the information um of uh you know combining
basically many different modalities and what you might have um is many neural columns doing a similar
operation at the same time so many many neural columns that are sort of basically trying to to
uh do this sort of duplicate multimodal process where they're combining visual information with audio
information with somatic sensory information you the touch feeling and sight um and all of your senses
when you're touching a phone when you're holding the phone how far is from you what's the phone
orientation and so you have uh one or many probably many more neural columns that are uh tracking
this phone's activity but you've got at least one and one neural column that's doing it at least one
and um and then uh and so they can in summary you know so there's maybe lots of different representations
happening but they can but what's similar between these representations allows um the sort of the
brain to to vote and what's different uh allows the brain to uh eliminate the the incorrect analysis and uh
so then it can be like reduced and and uh so to make a long story short it's like um the ability to
change um someone's perception of reality might might come down to figuring out which uh micro columns are
relevant at that particular moment in time and manipulating them and that operation um might be um
might be a lot less work uh if we can figure out exactly how that works and um exactly how to
how to uh locate uh the activity and identify the activity correctly and and what and what it's going to
take to um to to manipulate this system so um i have to say that uh uh and but here's here's here's
a reason is because um in general the the thalamus is a lot harder to reach uh than the neocortex and so
if we can modify a part of the neocortex uh that effectively does what we wanted to achieve by
modifying the thalamus um then uh then maybe that's a an easier way to to to accomplish the same goal
and uh and and and more to the point that the the the um the activity between the thalamus and the
and the neocortex is um especially i mean it's between the thalamus and this and the in the the
primary sensory neocortex so the the i'm talking about the the visual uh um
the uh the visual cortex the audio cortex and the somatosensory cortex the primary sensory cortex
and the in the thalamus is like it's like this it's like it's like feedback loops it's like um
you know lots of like multi layers of of feedback loops feedback loops between every layer of
of the of the visual cortex v1 v2 v3 v4 and each one of those communicating the thalamus each one
communicating with each other and um and so there's so much like there's so much like traffic
going in every different direction that that um it's it's so so here's here's how i think of it
it's like imagine that the feedback loop really is like one big circle right and the big circle is
passing the data around in a circle all the time it's oscillation of this of this information traveling
in a big circle and do we need to intercept that circle at the thalamus or can we just really
intercept that circle anywhere maybe closer to the surface of the brain that's what i'm saying you
know you know what i'm saying yeah that makes sense um but again that all sounds like uh recurrent neural
networks to me and so you might be getting time lag um you might be getting you know at the higher
level in the in your cortex so much feature processing has already occurred as it's got as the signals have
gone through that loop um i just see being difficult to target like i just want to have a blue pixel at
this point in the visual field like to get that kind of resolution i think we need to go deeper we
need to go at least to the thalamus and possibly like you said going all the way back up to the eyes
maybe not like i'm just thinking like how do we do it without having to have goggles on
or any kind of external stimulus um so if there's anything that can tap into the optic nerve directly
stimulate at that but at that point that's probably the most effective but then i want to live in the
matrix so having something deeper in the brain that can stimulate everything would be great so have you
read about bi-directional recurrent networks recurrent neural networks so it's it's an interesting topic so
so so so how so maybe you can talk a little bit about how how is a recurrent neural network similar
to the brain and then i'll then i'll go into bi-directional neural networks so typical artificial
neural networks are feed forward um the kind of stuff that they're doing with deep learning and most
recurrent neural networks these days um well typical neural networks are feed forward you have an input
layer and everything just kind of pushes all the way through to the output layer with deep learning you
have a whole bunch of layers uh recurrent neural networks have backlinks so you're taking signals
that have already gone through processing through various layers and feeding them backwards
um and that's it's commonly used for it gives a sense of memory because essentially signals can be
repeated and loop around in the brain and um typically in recurrent neural networks you've got to
repeatedly stimulate repeatedly activate the input layers um to get a um before you get a stable output
so that you get the signal to kind of loop around a few times before
all the neurons on the output layer kind of stabilize that's typically how it's done on the artificial
neural network side okay um hang on i am just um uh so um so yeah so that so there's this idea of um
you know i i brought this up in a discussion with uh some some really great neuroscientists and i said
well is it the case that you have like uh information flowing from the thalamus to the bottom layer of the
of the neocortex uh and you know and then up to the top layer of the neocortex and then back to the thalamus
sort of like in a big in a big loop right from the bottom to the top and um
uh and uh and so there's like this cycle right there's like um because because it's uh people
are still trying to understand exactly how uh what understand what what exactly a biologically
plausible version of back propagation would be um there's a lot of ideas um but it's still i think
it's still an area of the research interest and um and do you want to comment on that specifically
before i continue or no you can continue all right so um so then we have um but then we have uh so uh
a bi-directional uh recurrent neural network or um a or you can also do a bi-directional lstm
um basically it's like it's like okay so like um what you really people should like you know search
look on look look on the web and look this up but um just just but just imagine like if you take if
you took the input right and you just and use and you sent it into two different directions at the
same time into two different neural networks right and um and i think that may have been like the
beginning like the like the like the the um the genesis of the idea was like okay well what if we
played with the structure of where stuff is going a little bit for what if we sent it in two different
directions like forward forward states and backward states and process the input in in multiple
different uh directions and and uh so uh yeah it's um i'm looking at a wikipedia article right now
called bi-directional actually it's not a wikipedia but it's an article called bi-directional recurrent
neural network uh b-i-r-n-n training system and um it implements a forward pass algorithm and a backward
path algorithm at the same time and uh so but so here so so i so i was sharing this idea with uh
with these with these neuroscientists and and um it's really great neuroscientists and and they um
and they i guess uh they didn't knock it down but they but they um they took it up a notch because
um it's kind of like um it's kind of like you have uh um like and so like a neural so like a neural
like imagine like a neural column it's just like any random neural column like it like like everywhere
in the brain in the neocortex the top two-thirds of your brain but neocortex specifically it's like the
same repeating algorithm it's the same thing same pattern it's just repeated over and over again in the
visual cortex and an audio cortex and the and the post-barital cortex everywhere same repeating
pattern but so you pick one particular neural column anywhere in the brain and um it is receiving
inputs from every direction from below from above from the left from the right from the front from the back
from every direction right now so that so that so just like imagine you have to create a neural network
now okay where where it's not receiving inputs from one direction and and pushing outputs to another
direction it's receiving inputs from every direction and pushing outputs in every direction
do you see what i'm saying like this is weird um this is weird this is weird weird but it's it's like
yeah so that's what you that's kind of what you have to think about in terms of like it's not just
like recurrent neural neural network it's it is it's it's like next something next level uh
and uh but yeah so i just wanted to share that yeah that's cool uh so it looks like brnn's are more
like an evolution of the typical single hidden layer perceptron um and what i've been thinking when i think of
recurrent neural networks like the modern ones it's like you said like lstms deep deep neural networks
where you have those kind of backlinks going across layers um but i agree with you that's
biological neural networks are way way way more complicated than anything we're simulating
with artificial neural networks but they're also super cool i mean it is like the brain is truly a 3d
neural network because it because it's processing information in in in at least six degrees of
it's it's better to think of it as a neural graph like yeah from from my research like
i mean some of the the when you have dendrites like basically go across the entire brain like
extremely long connections between disparate parts of the brain um so it's not just that they're
communicating with it's not like a column is just communicating with columns next to it they can
be communicating with a column on the other side of the brain incredibly difficult to to simulate that
there's definitely no algorithms that could train in that work like that right now
no i mean look we don't have we don't have the um my my understanding is that that uh even even uh
creating a of of um a model of the brain that's um completely functional it's just beyond the
computational capacity of computers today and uh we may not approach that you know before 2050 or 2060
or maybe even later if we're really depending on the level of detail we really need have you studied
at all any like the uh the quantum theories for neural activity i have uh i have sure let's let's talk
about them what what it is what's your uh what's your interest there i mean just getting into like
are we even simulating the right things or trying to simulate a brain looking at the structure
because i basically what i've seen and i i mean individual neurons are basically entire chemical
computers in and of themselves and by whatever mechanisms they're using they're possibly
using quantum techniques or that they operate at the level of individual molecules and could be
subject to some quantum processes and so even if we were able to simulate you know this trillion
node neural graph would be missing the quantum element within individual nodes individual neurons okay so um
so here so it it gets even worse than that because um it seems like uh you know with with uh
short-term memory we'd need to model um the uh we need to model things like um whether receptors are
and the nmda receptors are open or closed between different neurons because because that is something that
changes uh very fast in real time uh as you're in at the short-term memory range um and then the long-term
memory is uh whether there actually are uh you know connections at all uh so that synapses can form between
different neurons um i mean that's part of it this is i'm maybe that's not the whole thing but
um i may have uh okay go ahead and would you i lost my train of thought let me pause i'll pause
there was a paper or article i wrote synapses within a single like that's a level of simulation that
i don't think it's really been considered at least until very recently with some of the
newer artificial neural network models so what if each if each neuron is an individual
kind of analog computer that can selectively stimulate particular axon or particular synapses
like we are very far away from simulating actual biological neural activity so um so without without um
so that there's too many things that i would need to say about that but just sort of like
what maybe i just focus on one part of that is is that is that um it's absolutely the case that single
that um that synaptic connections uh or receptors are being modified at the single neuron level
at this at the speed of thought that is that is the actual truth um and the nmda receptors are
are uh uh uh being uh created and being destroyed and being blocked or inhibited in real time at the
speed of thought this is uh this is this is a this is actually part of the a thing that happens and
happens at the single neuron level now uh there's there are arguments and evidence that the single neurons
are um um self-regulating and it's not that it's not controversial at all and there's also arguments
and evidence that um uh that single neurons are actually being regulated by other neurons
and that's also not controversial uh both things are happening uh and uh this is you know in the in yeah
so welcome david uh you've been listening for a while what what do you what are you thinking
sure um there's been a lot that's been that's been uh speculated about quantum effects in the brain
um you know from like i guess the the most well-known research is sort of
you it's uh so there's the i i want to say that that um the there's this weird sort of thing going
on culturally between this guy um uh who wrote this thing called orc or and and everyone else in their
neuroscience who doesn't want to listen to him which i and i also kind of like uh have some disagreements
with his uh with his ideas but but but that he's probably the most well-known guy to talk about um
quantum effects in the brain so you can look up orc or or ch space or it's a theory of quantum effects in
the brain but um but but um it's i think it's actually not really a controversial idea and uh
and uh so the the cultural the cultural thing is kind of funny but that like you know people get mad
when you when you bring that up it's not and it doesn't really change anything uh because um because
because here's the thing is like the ideas of uh short-term memory and long-term memory
uh are not going to change if there's uh some additional quantum uh uh things happening with
with uh microtubules or whatever that's not going to change uh it's still basically um you know
uh information in the brain is still a is still basically you know neurons detect information
because they detect coincidence patterns and um and so like if there's a quantum effect that the change
that that that is uh changing the brain the way it would happen is the um the quantum effect would
change the uh the gradient of the neuron so the gradient of the neuron is um basically the distribution
of positive and negative charges and that's going to affect um when the neuron is going to fire
because if you separate the positive and negative charges uh that the neuron has to reach uh equilibrium
in order to balance itself in order to maintain its equilibrium and so it and so the action potential
event fires and that's when that's when the neuron fires um it's sort of like um it's the same sort of
reason why lightning happens the positive and negative charges separate enough that uh the the the um
the atmosphere needs to reach equilibrium in that in that moment and there's a lightning strike
and then uh the positive and negative charges are distributed more evenly after the
after the lightning strike um and um so if there's anything coming from the microtribules
that's going to affect how a neuron fires uh it's going to um change it's going to be
reflected in changing the ions uh the ion distribution which has changed which changes the gradient of
of the neurons positivity or negativity which determines uh uh when it's going to fire which is going
which would affect the brain but it wouldn't it wouldn't be a revolution uh in in that um the
brain is like what we know about the brain we not so far we don't throw that out and we just it's the
same the knowledge is not is is going to be good whether no matter whether the microtubule theory ends up
being uh real or or kind of a mistake and um so so the funny thing about microtubules is
it is uh when microtubules are destroyed uh people have uh memory memory issues
okay and so uh there is a correlation between memory and microtubules and microtubules are where
orc or uh proposes that uh memory is stored in microtubules with quantum quantum effects
okay but here's the thing um microtubules are responsible for the structure uh before for
they're like a structural support it's like the bridge it's like the supports of the bridge that
holds the bridge up okay they they microtubules help the cell to have uh to have a space for the cell
to be a room for cell to be a structure or bubble and without without microtubules the cell is going to
collapse okay now in order for memory to happen for a long term uh potentiation to happen uh there has
to be there scientists have discovered over uh you know 200 years of research called neuroscience that
that uh new protein synthesis has to happen but in order for new protein synthesis to happen
there has to have it has to be a space for it to happen you know your your ribosome uh has to uh
has to have have a space to to check your your uh um to to to check your your your dna and your
and do its process and do the new protein synthesis process and make a new protein from from your dna
right from your it's it's i'm not an expert on genetics but it's something like that
and uh so new pro so when you whenever you create a new memory a long-term memory or when you recall a
long-term memory uh new protein synthesis has to happen um and uh and and that and that that's
shown it's illustrated and that's that may sound weird but that but there was this recent study where
uh uh so in the case of alzheimer's and parkinson's it's fact and you can research this that uh new
protein synthesis is is is inhibited uh and in this is uh something they found out in uh last year in 2020
uh there's a study in parkinson's and another study in alzheimer's and they found out the new that
basically um uh not only is new protein synthesis uh inhibited in parkinson's and also also in alzheimer's
but if you uh treat the patient with the chemical to um uh to improve uh to increase their uh to their
ability to synthesize new proteins then um then that patient is going to see improvements in their condition
uh but but the thing is like if you if your microtubules have collapsed there's no space for you to
for your cell to um uh to do new protein synthesis so you so of course you're gonna have memory issues
but but it's like it's like that'd be like saying okay well the way the way it's like imagine you like
the the football stadium is holding the football stadium up uh the supports of that stadium collapse
well okay so so so um so that so that's like saying okay so football always stops when the stadium collapses right
but then you think well the stadium itself is causing the football to happen no it's not it's just the
container so that so i think it's just i think orc orr is just like a massive mistake uh and they're
confused they're they he's he's essentially confusing uh correlation with causation um but
oh go ahead i'll let you respond oh it's just i love these kinds of conversations just think through
um i'm intrigued with it for and he had a wonderful long life of 88 years and married for 63 and
thank god we've got a lot of really great things to kind of carry us as we work through uh you know
just everything but you know it's kind of i've been a caregiver because he's he was wrestling with
cancer for six two cancers okay he worked at the nevada test site for decades and sadly a lot of people
that worked there um on the nuclear bombs you know during the cold war a lot of them got cancer
hundreds and even thousands of people had cancers because we didn't know what the hell we were doing
but in any case i just i've got these just odd it's probably just me i don't know you know
it's just these weird a desire to know that there's something on the other side and i am a
nerd head so like just listening to you guys is like such orchestrated music in my ears to try to
understand what the science say about all this stuff you know so i i just i love this stuff i'll look into
the orca stuff the orc i i was at a uh i did have a really cool experience with neil degrasse tyson
about seven years ago at a vip uh event he was a keynote and i chatted with him a bunch of us were
chatting with him but like he he had he introduced me to this these ideas on some of the i guess
one of one of the other guys there had asked him you know um what's dark matter and he and neil degrasse
tyson said well you know this is someone else's theory but it's pretty popular one it's it's a gravity
leak from a different dimension and so i thought holy crap how cool is that i call it a kennedy moment
because my head got the kind of just it's really ridiculous let's say that but it's just it blew my
mind and so you know i'm just really curious if dark energy dark dark energy if there's just something
that explains these these these things that happen right i don't know and then i'll close my jabbering
all these things after one more point which is i'm not a string theory expert but i i've heard and i
know that like on the surface according to string theory which is basically math that there's basically
math proof that there's 11 dimensions and then if you hear neil degrasse tyson talk about um
just if you're a higher dimension being you can look down into small into smaller dimensions but
if you're a smaller dimension being you can't look up into higher dimensions so then i think and i can
i as you can tell i don't know what the hell i'm talking about but the space-time continuum is if
please correct me if you guys know this is not the right way to think about this but our universe is
is comprised of four dimensions right isn't that right other than the black hole who knows what
the hell happens in there we've got 3d space we've got time and we have it's pretty up for debate
well everything's up for my point is isn't there like more more dimensions beyond the four that we
live in in the universe and again i i don't know what the hell i'm talking about i'm just a nerd i try to
listen and that's it i'm david thank you sure um well people people can respond but i but uh i
eventually would like um make the physics responses short so we can get back to the the main topic but
with neurophysics is like brain waves and stuff right nerve gears brain computer interfaces and
and uh yeah we can take a temporary diversion into physics just a short one okay but um that but
we'll come back to the role to the main topic but uh just uh just real quick um uh so i think
grant had an answer and i'll just pause myself go ahead i have an answer just i think that's a
dimension and i don't agree with that and two i think if you're trying to think about you know
what's happening in terms of dimensions i start with trying to just at the very least
visualize what a hypercube is since that's something real and even that's super hard to
do so that would be my recommendation okay and i also want to welcome jeremy to the room jeremy did you
want to uh but no i just i just um you know coming for a visit uh i was just in a in a pretty hectic
room it was something like what just uh hanging out for 10 minutes with cammy cammy russo and then
there was a whole bunch of physicists in there and they got into a fight and we closed the room
so i'm drifting from physics now uh back to uh neurophysics here
due to a fight due to due to a probabilistic fight yeah yeah i mean you know i i feel like
physics people are sometimes no offense to any physics people in the room here but uh there's
some kind sometimes a little bit disconnected from from reality and in what they fight over uh you know
like like stuff like somebody somebody asked recently like what what is the um uh the uh
the upper bound on uh how on how much the brain can stimulate can be stimulated and and uh and one
one guy who was a neurologist was like well i don't i don't think there's any uh limits and uh no but
i was like oh wait now wait a second now you don't understand what he's asking he's he means like
if you're calculating infinities and to the end of existence like this like physics is like what is
the old like there has to be like a theoretical upper bound to the the absolute maximum amount of
information that the brain can be fed at one point in time i mean you're just going to get tired of
too much information right but but but um but to his but to the realist the the neurologist he's
thinking really along the lines of like well what is what is uh what's real now in terms of our
equipment now in terms of our technology now and he's not thinking like a physicist so and neither
neither would an ai person either you know i mean it's when people try to say that they're going to
solve ai using physics it's um well i don't know i mean it's a ways away you know uh it it likely
in my opinion it's not going to require that much physics in my in my opinion actually to uh to make
a machine that can actually think a little bit like a person why is that jermain well that's so that
was maybe a loaded statement on my part maybe i shouldn't have uh opened the kid can of worms i
don't want to i don't want to hijack uh i think i think it's actually the most important distinction
with ai because it's either something you can just code you know in a um turing complete you know
interface or it's something else i don't know i mean mike it's up to you guys if you want me to respond i
don't you know so i don't want to i don't want to divert you no no no so so jeremy you're you're on
topic for this group so so talking about uh ai and everything you love to talk about is is part
of this group it's in the description so keep going all right all right well i mean it's tricky i mean
you know hansen below is in the group uh maybe hansen might have heard me uh respond you know there's
it's very tricky uh with ai now i mean we have obviously people like micah and and many others who
are um who are trying to come at it trying to understand the neurology the the biophysics the
the you know the nature of how you know the whole the whole brain works in every aspect of it and hope
to be able to map that and then there we have the neural link folks who are trying to tap into the brain
and capture certain segments of it and we also have different um ai scientists and mathematicians
trying to map parts of the brain in a simulated fashion and then you have ai folks more traditional
ai folks using machine learning and neural networks to take information from basically the databases
as many databases as they can get their hands on and to be able to sift through it and to be able to
use pattern pattern recognition and all different types of patterns to be able to slice and dice every
little elements um in these databases up in such a way that um might you know might get at the way
in which a person would think um but it you know and then then you have folks like myself and then uh now
some other folks uh i think deep mind just came on board with this idea of trying to ground trying to
simulate basically um the the the simulating to reverse engineer how a mind might actually develop
um without actually looking under the hood as micah would we actually trying to figure out the the
the learning process right from the from the ground from the grounding from a grounding of patterns
and what do you think that base base pattern kind of physically looks like well i mean there seems to
be some agreement i mean i i i started uh i mean someone by the name of terry winograd actually started
the path this this idea back in the early 70s he was a kind of a pioneering ai guy he's just started
with the notion of a sensor and sensor sensing colors um and being able to just name them and to be able
you know as a way to to get at the symbol grounding problem where where the colors were just basically
the colors represented sort of wild cards of nouns right and it could be but any any kind of the most
basic object uh you know and this could work by the way um if you are blind uh you weren't seeing you
could actually do this with auditory uh signals uh or you could if you were if you were deaf you could
also do it probably with um uh touches but you know very particular patterns of touch
um and or or possibly even well i don't know i haven't i haven't thought about smell but uh just
you know or possibly taste uh so the the goal is to be able to ground it to just the most basic uh
possible um objects or or at least senses and then to be able to mimic uh the sensory uh spatial temporal
um ability of a of a person of a child a young child um which they're doing some they are doing
experiments uh basically based on pi j's it gets to object permanence a lot faster than pi j ever uh
ever thought and so so then so basically i had uh sort of uh maybe about 20 years ago uh you know i've
been doing this for a while um i i began to sort of merge this idea of uh you know sensing color but
to do it in such a way of sensing colors of patterns uh in such a way that these patterns would have to
associate themselves with colors such that a sensing uh simulated uh human would need to basically sense
them and in a simulated fashion without even you know having a real child there and then i i began
to notice that you could you could obviously have a there's a bare minimum of i sort of came to a
different conclusion you know winograd was talking about just naming colors and then sort
of associating colors maybe adding a few operators in but but i i sort of i was like wait a second you
know i think what we need to do is we need to be able to make it so that it's mimicking a child
and so that the the child is going to actually first they're going to point or they're going
to signal they're going to make a statement like that or it or or uh or red or is you know that is
right they're going to they're going to apply language to it and so then i began to figure out
that there would be a way to build an ontology um a very granular ontology where you're literally
layering every meaning that a a potential child would would learn but in in a very specific order
because it's not simple and it's a very you you can't just it's not going to it's not it's not so
random there's a there's a lot of probability going on because humans have needs and they have
instincts and they have they have requirements that they that they possess in order to to develop
that are really pretty much no option so they have to be able to use the simplest words you know
where in the beginning they can use you know just obviously uh baby you know baby babbling but but
eventually the babbling has to transfer transform into words and they and those are the very most basic
words words like like that or or this or is or you know um it or you know uh you know and then
to be able to to combine these words in such a way that you're getting basically this and that this with
that this and that are both that this and that you know red is red and blue are colors being able to
gain levels of abstraction and then i began to realize that you could get much more language out of that
and you could begin to begin to trace that that would it would require like this this idea this theory of
requirement this to trace the child um getting a uh you know beyond words that are beyond uh you know with
or or you know like words like start where you you're literally catching a word i mean a color um or an object
that is um you you see it actually going and so you're you're initiating a word like go and then you're
you're you're watching it move and so you're saying that is here you're starting before go you're starting
with maybe here that is here and and then that is there and then you're establishing and grounding that
because something is here and then then something is now there and then there's some sort of time
this potentially involved that it's actually moved and then then you begin to say that you've been able
to instantiate the meaning of movement and then you're able to when you're when you're actually
going from movement you're you're able to then get into um uh to this idea of um let's see i'm just
trying to i'm just trying to remember this is going to going back a while um uh something like um
you know uh it's it's it's it's moving faster and it's and it's moving and it's and it's okay it gets
to it's getting to another thing and then it's beginning beginning to arrive or it's beginning to
start or it's beginning to finish and you can really i found that you can begin to develop
many hundreds of thousands of words this way and it i um and you can these words aren't just words
they're they actually turn out to be statements um they turn out to be sentences and they turn out
to be sentence structures they turn they turn out to have syntax and would it be fair to say it's um
at the end of the day it's pattern recognition you know like you're looking at patterns you're looking
at when they start and stop it's inherent to it you know it's not like you're understanding oh it
starts to stop i think when you're immediately born you understand it's starting and stopping it's
inherent to just pattern recognition in general i would say that in the beginning i would say in the
beginning there are patterns there's no question about it but but but i think i'm saying smelling
you know thinking these are just patterns that you're picking up on you know you're not gonna
get any debate from me about that these these things some of these things are patterns but but but
what i would say is that they they eventually move well i'd argue everything's a pattern well no i mean
otherwise i could just write a patent and then just say that you know i'm making a pattern pattern
not patent no no no i just said the word patent i just used the word patent because i was saying
i could use the word i could i could use the word pattern in a patent and then just to be able to
uh patent a bunch of patterns but i'm just saying that clearly that's a legal framework i'm just
talking about life in general like you know us as a as a entity that's collecting data
you know at its most abstract level you can just say it's pattern recognition i i don't know if it's
as as simple as that i i think that it's um it's it's involving you're you're feeding the system um
words that fit that fit the pattern the more memory needs the more patterns you're digesting to
understand the rest of the patterns you have yeah but but i'm saying that these are you're you're
basically collapsing the evolution and you're collapsing the development of of of people you
know known development of of children and young adults so you're kind of collapsing it and then
you're you're basically trying to figure out what the what the required not just the required words are
but the required experiences uh the required uh emotions potential emotions and feelings from the most
elemental fundamental uh on up and so also isn't just to clarify isn't a word just like a
way to convey an idea to another person you know like it's just like you also have the concept of
what that is doesn't mean it means the same thing like words mean different things technically but
it's trying to trying to have a shared understanding but that's exactly why we're doing you know it's
not just me that's doing this now i mean deep mind is doing it too deep mind is not not choosing
to do this for the fun of it it's it's because you're trying to ground it you're trying to ground
it so that you can share meaning so that that that that there's a reason why children learn the way
they learn and that they're learned they're able to sit together and all learn and and not necessarily
they all don't successfully learn but but most of them do i think and i think there's a reason for
that and that's it's because language is grounded and it's it is grounded in very basic the most
fundamental structures and then it escalates and so that that allows for this ability to have a
shared language and a shared sensory temporal experience uh feeling uh a shared experience
of some feelings of sensations of sight of hearing of taste of touch of of all manner of of um you know
of words and so i think it's it's uh it's more than just getting back to this idea you had suggested
the patterns it's it's really i mean when you say like like if you look at the word regret i mean
you know you regret something i would say it's a it's a it's a humanly developed um word i mean
these weren't any words are humanly developed why do you think that i mean if a dog you know
if i could just finish so it's evolved because because people need to interact with each other and
they need to live with each other right so if you're going to live with each other and understand each
other you're going to need to be able to cooperate and you're going to need to be able to you know
basically share right we're basically sharing in social beings so i i you know i think that
you know it becomes very abstract when you begin to call everything a pattern
it i would call it more of a requirement i i would call it more of a requirement than i
like i should expand on that idea you said it's human unique which i think
is not the case in terms of at least regret because i mean think about what the grant means
right oh no no i don't mean please i don't mean i don't mean to say that just humans i'm sure that
many animals from the animal kingdom are able to feel regret i'm sorry i didn't mean to to say okay
i think what jeremy's touching on is that embodiment is a key component we're not just brains
in uh boxes for brains and bodies and that has a significant effect on how we model the world and
how we how we recognize those patterns because those patterns are all coming in through our bodies
and so as humans we all have the same bodies for the most part and so we all tend to recognize similar
patterns and over time as cognition develops and becomes more abstract those patterns become much
more abstract but they're also common because we all have similar body forms yeah if we were all
meerkats right now the type of patterns we'd be talking about would be you know ones that we were
all experiencing and they probably a little different than the ones we're experiencing now so i i just had
a funny thought and and as like i was imagining that if an animal i was imagining like a cat or something
feeling regret and then like if we like listen to their brain like okay well what do you mean you
feel regret and and like we we might discover like to great comedy that the regret is like
extremely egocentric and just you know like extremely self-centered like regret like like um
like if like maybe the cat is uh accidentally causes this accident and and and someone else gets hurt
but really the regret is about missing its food or something i don't know it's like
more regrets regrets super tied to pain right cats don't feel regret it's like a yeah it's true
but it's like a pain you know regret is just um i think at the end of the day you can really boil
this shit down to super simple things like like bad and good you know like regret is definitely not
bad yeah that's right you can no no we can we talk we talk about these things in the field as primitives
and and you can be able you need to be able to start with the most basic primitives and and indeed good
and bad are definitely uh some of no but the but the language but the language uh construct uh helps
create a context for what that good or bad signal means to to the organism and without without language
it does but language is also purely meant to just communicate with others if you had lived in this
in a world by yourself for eternity and never talked to someone else you wouldn't use language
you would just understand what's happening to you in terms of patterns in terms of what has happened to
you but that doesn't address the non-verbal communication my wife's uh she's a preschool
teacher she's got like a master's degree in early childhood and in that in that field they
is pretty much commonly accepted that empathy is taught so we immediately day one of looking at
someone else if you're a baby you're immediately just trying to communicate with them and trying to
you know but you don't know how and obviously now we're on clubhouse that's how much it's evolved
well no but i'm i guess my point is simply if you're you said language it was kind of it's all
i'm probably misunderstood you but but you know if empathy is taught think about all the other
things that are the most inherent yeah i i would i would i would agree with garrett grant i think that
there's empathy would be a mixture of being taught and inherent because one of the first things
i think if you just plop into the world you understand is i am myself and this is someone else like
and immediately there's that empathy now you don't understand the beginning that they feel
pain when you punch them you do over time because you know oh when i get punched i feel pain
but you do inherently understand that empathy in terms of this is someone else and i'm building up
my empathy awareness yeah no i i don't know i don't know i mean other than just it's it's it's
you would think okay you would think all that but remember not all of us have the same left and right
cortex you know firing off at whatever performance level so even animals lots of children well i'm not
going to talk about animals well that yeah but that's anecdotally it just projecting you who knows
right all i'm telling you is that in the in the child development field that um and all the children
we're all different right and we're not all born the same and we can talk about you know all the
nature genetic stuff it's just some of it's gonna activate and some of it's not and so for for
lots of humans if they need some some help along that and so the teaching of it is is kind of a if you
wouldn't get much argument in that whole space is all i'm saying that whole field there's no
question that there's some people it's cultivated it's cultivated there's no question that some
people are born with poor poor uh ability to emphasize empathize i mean there's just no question
about that and that that some people need a lot of training uh to even begin to even fathom uh the
concept i totally agree or the i just i guess i'm my point is just that um kind of going back to my
pattern recognition it's something that you is emergently learned is empathy because you're like
wait a second i'm myself i'm feeling the same things that these other people are feeling i would
say you know what though it's tricky it's very it gets tricky when you know david's example is pretty
good i think um you know i don't know if anybody knows but uh you know that famous actor sasha
baron cohen anybody know him oh yeah yeah so his brother apparently is one of the foremost he's like
at oxford he's a phd and he's one of the foremost experts in autism and and he actually talks a lot
about these issues um and it's very controversial not very but somewhat controversial um and he's
talking about um the fact that you know for some for some folks that they you know they are they don't
really have he compares people with autism and people who are on the sociopathic uh you know
spectrum who like he says that people with people who are sociopaths are not born with empathy that
they don't actually have the feeling but they actually understand it intellectually and that
he says that that that were people on the spectrum on the autism spectrum they actually can feel they do
have the feeling but the intellectual aspect of the intellectualization of it for them is complicated
and murky and so they actually have to sort of figure out what's going on whereas the sociopath
understands what's going on but actually can't feel it so it's tricky to say that it's always emergent
because if you are as as david i think correctly put if you are missing a certain uh feeling state or a
certain emotion uh state if you're or if you're missing a certain you know sense of sensory
perception uh or or emotional perception you you might not ever really get it it might not actually
ever isn't that isn't that more reason to say it's emergent because it's like some have emerged more than
others well i don't know if something doesn't emerge i don't know i don't know if something doesn't
emerge i don't know if it's if it's that's too that's too simplified i mean i really attracted to
the point is what you're saying but yeah no i think you're out there i mean the pattern is a very
useful metaphor right the pattern and just our ability our brains really to quickly interpret
patterns and we start to map it out to bigger you know i totally get it i think that's great i just uh
i don't know is there you got a lot that's a really strong base you know foundational base i like
that i i try i think but if you want to simplify things as much as you can and sorry anson i love
what you say so it's all right that's okay thanks uh i read the uh there are mirror neurons in the uh
in the brain and uh some people have abundance of them and then some others uh have a dearth of them so
and then they uh so some people just don't and not i mean probably just don't have the material base to
empathize i think just one uh observation i have in terms of people understanding what's going on is
if you look at um you know like a a newton or someone that understands a lot it's like they
almost go off the charts in terms of understanding so it almost seems as if a base understanding is the
most important because once if you have a good base you can basically pick more fruit off the tree
because it's actually yielding fruit versus something that never really grows much so it's like you can't
just be quote smart and able to pattern recognize right now you have to have a big understanding of
what is happening and build off on top of that so it kind of makes more sense if you look at it that
way that someone would be able to understand a lot more uh going forward about a lot of different things
because they have a very solid structure of what the patterns are how they're fitting on top of each
other in a so to speak well that's what education is about right the pedagogy of education totally as
long as education's good but yes completely well but i mean well aside from that that's that's kind of
the point of education but then if you want to go become a researcher or something you've got a
all of us have a shared understanding of the language and then we went through a similar educational
system you know to some degree but then it's up to us to kind of take that and continue to explore
building new it's almost like legos right it's like building new patterns and fabricated that the
creative brain kind of gets involved right so i don't know i think really out of itself thanks grant
for really getting me to to really respect the pattern recognition piece i'm more intrigued with the
other side are not necessarily correct but you could see that be like oh this means that and then
after a while be like wait a second it means this but if you're not willing to readjust then you're
just going to be stuck in your own way mike you had a question before about the good and bad you
were going to make a statement i forget but i mean i feel like i feel like a lot of things that are
being said or not are more on the psychological speculative side of things not really grounded
in uh in neuroscience for for example like um the whole thing about um about some people having
more neurons or other neurons i'm sorry i mean the the idea of that some some of the folks have more
mirror neurons than other other mirror neurons well well that is uh i'm like how can you even prove
that like that is just like that's actually they did they did they did they used to actually see
uc davis and i think several other uc schools were doing studies on that and they actually covered
in science they covered that in scientific american about a decade ago it was called the the broken
mirrors theory but they now again i think that all i think it was very politically incorrect of the
work that they were doing so i think they shut it all down so i i think they were looking into it
but i think they decided to stop maybe maybe it's because it was politically correct or maybe because
as micah says maybe it's a it was a trip toward a you know a no man's land no i'm just saying like
it's it's it's it's um there's no there's like it might be a hypothesis but here but okay so like
one of the reasons why um mirror neurons stopped being a topic one of the reasons is that there's just
like the way the way so mirror neurons was observed in in monkeys is basically you know there's a very
there's very specific neuron that is going to fire with uh with consistency that that um
you know like the like if another monkey's hand is firing and and and the monk it's it's it's the
same neuron that that fires when the monkey's hand is firing or something like that you know it's just
like but that's sort of like you know so that hasn't been observed in humans what's been observed is
that maybe we have like a functional version of a mirror neuron maybe maybe a neural circuit's doing the
same job as an as a mirror neuron and and and and uh like in like identifying like actual like being
able to identify to look at a human being with enough detail that you can identify where their
neurons are which of those neurons are mirror neurons and which of them are firing correctly
and how many mirror neurons they have this is like this beyond uh any medical imaging technology that
in existence like that so so the idea that you could you could casually say well you know some people
just don't have as many mirror neurons as other people is just not connected to neuroscience that
is more like this is like a story it's like that's what i'm that's all i'm saying it's like not it's
not uh it's not uh it's an idea that's not uh grounded in science you know it's a third hypothesis
theory some kind of there you go yeah i i i agree i mean i i don't know how they uh yeah i think uh you
have uh the uh uh it's very very reasonable the uh i don't know how they they got it out um the
other thing that i noticed is that like if you're um you know whether like so so there are examples of
like animals being sort of like born with a certain tendency to have certain certain kinds of knowledge
like like um like rat like rats uh are born with certain behaviors that are uh a tendency they're
they're born with a certain tendency to develop behaviors that are relevant to their survival and um
um so you have to say well then that that uh that the brain isn't a blank slate where you just like
you know where you just like it learns everything from scratch where you could like you know like
if you took a rat's brain out and you just you know fed it like data it would just become like a
general purpose computer it's not it's not that simple the rat the rat's brain is going to have some
some some genetic likelihood towards certain kinds of behaviors uh but uh so so yeah so there might be some
genetic likelihood for someone to develop uh empathy there definitely there definitely is there's no
question about that it is a weird no weird so yeah and what i'm saying is there is there's there i
think there is some question about that like like in terms of like the degree of it and why it's not
consistent with every person there's some question about it but there's like there's definitely like
a genetic uh basis to to why humans are likely to more likely to to have certain behaviors i i but but but
i think i still think it's like so it's the topic you want to question that's that's all i'm saying
and and in terms of like you know how much of it could be um uh you know how much of it could could
be how much of our brain uh despite its genetic predispositions is is open to training and open to
um to change and that's it's just an interesting thing to think about yeah it's like you know your
hereditary impulses they're there and it's it's so hard to say how that affects your your tabula rosa
so to speak you're part of the brain that does start blank or however you want to try to you know talk
about that see the thing is also with what i was talking about too is that you know a lot of the the
language you know after doing this for many years um and i think others have found this too in the in
not that many are working on it yet but um there's there's a there you need to build you need to have
some words before other words and you know there's there tends to be this this uh prominence of words
being required before other words can go and so the words the words have to be grafted onto grounded
experiences and grounded situations and and grounded uh nouns and so that becomes rather invariant invariant
and um one can say there's a massive amount of variability but the groundedness and the and
the types and the features of things and the conditions need to be grounded and they're they're often
very easy to identify um and the options become easy to easy to identify as well um
the the goal is is to be able to make it so that your nouns are your nouns are like wild cards so that
you actually get like every time that anybody in this room speaks they're going to be using basically the
same words over and over again what's going to change are going to be the topics but the words and
the combinations of words that you're using and when you write it or if you're writing
they're going to be the same over and over and over again and same combinations and sometimes a little
different combinations but so the the theory is that the words and the meanings eventually when you
begin to figure them out developmentally that there are these developmental causal uh causal
definitions ideological definitions of various different developmental definitions when you begin to
get at these new types of semantics and these new types of uh sentence structures then you can
overlay them basically over and over again like people do every time they see or do something new
is your point that language is kind of you get more sophisticated or what's your point well no i mean
my point is multifaceted i mean the point is that language does get more sophisticated it does build on
itself it's not optional like you can't you can't learn a harder word without having learned some
simpler words first but i i under the understanding that you could actually convey incredibly complex
theoretically the maximum complex ideas simply with a minimal amount of words too yeah i i tend to agree
i agree with that too and that that mirrors a lot of the work that i do there's no question about that
um but in addition so we're talking about the the language and then what was your other uh just lost
my train of thought you were you were talking about um oh yeah you're saying is that is what i'm trying to
explain just the idea of language no it's it's not just language it's it's the it's the templated of it's
that we use language as templates all the time language is all about communication and yes i think that
i think that obviously helps our own communication too in some ways but i also don't think it's
essential to just us um thinking ourselves about and making connections about what is reality
i'm sorry i don't know how what you're saying corresponds with what i'm saying
um you're you're if i'm not mistaken you're saying that basically you know language is a tool to
understand no i mean again i don't just mean language too by the way i i'm talking about
i'm talking about the this uh the human apparatus right so i'm talking about words that we use to
describe our own functioning right that's language with well that is language but it's it's for it stems
from words that again that that we we use to that we that we have in our sensory motor words
every time now okay hang on can i can i um really i i don't think so can i i want to wait i want to
weigh in here because uh there's there's uh if we so i have uh okay so like all right this is like um
like what so what it so it's interesting because because when we like like when we communicate with
language we use all these different modalities we our words refer to uh things we can see and hear
and touch and feel um concepts that are that are too abstract to assign to one one sensory modality
or another we talk about things we can smell and and um and and this means that language is uh in the
brain is not just trigger not just triggering one area not just one language area but but when we talk
about things we can see that there's there's neural activity that's happening in our visual cortex and
and when we talk about things we can taste and and and feel there's there's activity happening in our
somatosensory cortex and when we talk about things we sounds we heard or expect to hear that we expect
to see activity in our audio cortex or in our brain you know the brain stem and and and and when we when
we um uh talk about you know abstract concepts we expect to see um you know more maybe more activity in
in the in the in the in the frontal and parietal lobes and different different areas of the brain
it's so so and and and so like i imagine so like what i want to share okay so like i saw this video
of a dog one time right and the dog was this is like bear with me for a second it's um it's a short
story but it'll be worth it okay so the so dog is is in the kitchen and it's a video of a dog in the
kitchen and the dog is looking at uh at a at something on the countertop i think it's a pie
right and dog it looks over uh you know at the door to see if anyone else is around and it looks
at a stool and it looks at the pie and then it it looks around the kitchen again and it looks at the
door and it looks at the at the stool and it looks at the pie like it does a cycle it's like and i and
like i had this idea and it was like this um okay i'm gonna skip this part of the story because but
for some reason uh but so the dog so like imagining there's a cycle of activity happening in the dog's
brain right there's there's visual activity the dog is seeing one concept and then another concept it is
a sequence of concepts and uh that the dog is seeing that are playing out in like a movie like
it's like okay so like imagine a movie imagine that 10 seconds of dog dog dog's mental space
in that movie uh what you see on your tv screen is a picture of a door and then uh and then where
the where it doesn't like the kitchen is clear and then there's a the concept oh yeah the owner's not
home there's that's part of the movie and and then there's the part of the movie where okay there's a
stool so there's a way to reach the countertop and then there's another part of the movie where
there's like a pie that i could get this pie and then we see this dog leap up on the stool and then
it leaps up on the countertop and then it gets the pie right so here's the thing so when
i'm thinking is that is that the brain the brain is just in order to do normal functions has to
calculate a sequence of patterns a sequence of patterns just like i described um and that when
we are community when we're talking about language we're just we're just outputting what our brain is
doing is doing to another person i'm just like communicating a sequence of patterns uh and uh
uh and but but but but but the what i'm saying is the essential components of language are really
just the essential components of cognition and there's no um and even without language we are
performing uh mental language in a solo way because it is just performing a sequence of patterns
that's what that's what i'm saying and and uh so it doesn't matter if there's one person or more
than one person language is an essential component of cognition so i think one thing that might be
helpful here is just to separate or just state that language is a component of computer it's all it
is it's a building block but communication that think of all the sensory context you get you can say
almost the same words but if you say them differently they'll the nuance is is going to be real
that's just when you guys go back and forth on just language language it's like yes yes but then
communication i think grant said communication also it's it's uh it's a component of it so i mean because
we see i mean i mean just to riff on what you're saying david you're seeing you know in your mind's
eye color you're you're you're you're getting auditory representations of of the external world
you're you know you're getting smell sensations taste sensations you're you're getting um you know
you're you're you're you're i mean so there's just there's a mixture you know you're getting spatial
dimensions spatial and and temporal dimensions and so i mean some of these things are coming in
before you have the time to capitulate what they are right and so then you have to be able to
associate them and then convert them in the mind and then after the mind just begin to make some kind
of relationships with them then you're applying language on top of it to represent that so and
and often of course the language is not going to be precise enough to be able to always do that
hey yeah this is really interesting i wish i could stay longer but i have to go to sleep thank you so
much thanks thanks see you guys guys this is great thank you bye bye not to be a horse but i just i
think that um it's a i'm right but i think i am which is just that um language is just a tool we build up
and if we didn't have anyone else to communicate we wouldn't have words to use even internally and
we wouldn't need to and i don't think that would hinder us i think we just use them because it is a tool
that we built up so i mean my main point is that language is not not just words that the words are
representing our our internal modalities or or what we're in what we're really um we're doing
doing with with our words is creating a reduced uh a concentrated uh representation of of our
of our internal thoughts are what we see here and oh totally there's a really cool game this is
completely like sidetracked but i figured it's called like 100 it's a card game and basically
the way you play it is there's 100 cards and you give you spread them out equally among everybody
and you try to um count up from who has one to two to three to four and it's actually crazy because
over a couple rounds you get really good at um just communicating with everyone non-verbally
about who has the next card but really what i'm trying to say is that language is not our words it is um
our thoughts and that our thought we're going to have our thoughts and we're going to have our
our mental representations regardless of whether or not we're going to talk to someone else
well it might just be semantics because to me at least semantically language just means
words and sorry language means communication like language inherently means communicating with
someone else it's a tool to communicate with someone else language you can use all sorts of
different things to communicate and you can say that it's a language well it's not a semant it's
not a semantic difference um because we're not just using different words to to um i could just i
could look at you with my eyes and potentially communicate urgency stress happiness you know
that's a language okay well that's a client i mean you just contradicted yourself because
and then because then you didn't you say that language was just um words or you didn't say
no i'm saying language is communicating it's a communication that's that's to me encapsulates
it it's communicating but you can communicate like i said you know in so many different ways
okay so i mean like i mean i don't know like so you so um i mean just if we're being very abstract here
like what what isn't it in a sense like a human being with if a human being is alone in the forest and
there's no animals it's like this is like a weird situation there's no other life forms but but the
human being has this relationship with their environment at least right and your microphone
was on like no i'm saying if you human being has their relationship with with um with their
environment at the very least there is a there's always right right yeah so i'm saying that you
would it's okay so that's that was my my my thought experiment earlier on which is you're just born
and you don't you never speak with to someone or have something else that you can even hope to
communicate with then you could figure out that you build a hole and get water and drink the water
you just have all these ideas in your head of what you're trying to do and you're thinking you know
you're thinking but you're not thinking in a language you know because sometimes you'll say to
yourself gosh do this do that okay let me do this but if you think about it you don't really need
those words to convey in your head those same concepts okay uh so so this i think this is like
i don't know it's like where our major disagreement is is what i'm saying is like the thing the things
that are happening in your head are going to happen regardless of whether or not you're
communicating them to someone else you you're going to have activity going from your visual cortex
your somatosensory cortex to your audio cortex and this is this is the stuff that is happening in
your head when when you when language is happening in your head and this stuff happens when you're not
talking so the same stuff that's happening in your head before or after is still going to be happening
now let's say that you lived in a forest but you lived in a forest for an infinite infinitely long
amount of time but you you you lived you lived in the forest for eternity but you um and the forest
was infinitely big and and you could go any direction and and there's you know rivers and all sorts of
crazy stuff in the forest like super crazy stuff but you really need to uh to remember remember stuff
and remember it's not that good so you have to begin to write things down and communicate with
yourself so in that sense like you're writing down a representation of your thoughts of what something
means you know like if you're creating maps creating signs uh you could you would begin to
create a language just by yourself just to remind yourself just just a reduced representation
uh and and and you know at some point you know like the great philosophers uh in in history i think
that i think that you could say you can create a language with yourself i think that is a good point
and i think that that you know basically a lot of the a lot of the great philosophers spent time
uh just asking asking questions and thinking about their own questions and just sort of developing
their minds by themselves well exactly you you um build a mental model and you can't you know
build up on that mental model with yourself i mean that's all you're ever going to do anyway
no i mean you're going to be actually developing mental models with yourself with with other people
and what other people have learned over the thousand days you're getting the mental you're
getting information to add to your mental model through someone else then you yourself add it to the
mental model sorry to be nuanced all right so um i think we uh we've uh beaten a dead horse
if i could just if i could just finish real quick though i mean again i mean i think that people i
think some of the stuff that i was talking about maybe sailed over people's heads heads or they didn't
they didn't quite understand it but it it could very well be that there's a way of being able to
recreate uh the experiences and the the the developmental uh all of this developmental mental uh
modeling and mental mental um learning mental learning uh around our our the space of our experience
and our and language and and domains there there may be a way of doing that uh in such a way that
you're actually able to get a decent uh reflection about what's going on um in the mind and um i'm in
the you know the research that i'm doing and i have done is that you're beginning to find new ways of
defining uh things whether they're domains uh whether they're words whether they're you know psychological
aspects of people that uh so and then to be able to actually experiment to question using use a question
and answering uh methodology upon data uh to be able to find out if you're actually finding stuff
that obviously other techniques have not been able to uh show that you can find and so the goal is to
be able to improve on the the question and answering capability to be able to make a machine that can
begin to go back and forth with a person in some sort of way like a person can go back and forth
with another with another person so when i look at old home movies with my siblings it would be like a
computer joining us and kind of create its own mental mapping from a conversation with us i'm trying
to think of a practical application of something like that but i mean yeah i mean it's sort of like
that but it's also like if anybody saw that movie uh dust was a matt does makin us that's makina my
i don't know how to pronounce it but but you know or sort of like what google's doing that they're
basically getting all of the um they're laying out all the information about the world on the internet
obviously right and then the goal is that if you get these templates of of information right of model
definitions and you're able to reuse them over and over again as questions and then you're able to use
the internet as the answers then you begin to develop this virtuous circle where you're you're
developing a memory a system of memories where you're able to capture uh images and and uh and
words and meanings and all manner of uh domain specific knowledge uh from the internet and to be
able to layer it in such a way as you would learn it and then to be able to can to create this again
another virtual virtuous circle of being able to iterate upon it layer by layer and so it's it's
very abstract and i'm not expecting anybody to fully understand that but it's a it's a it's a it's a
a new way of of doing uh ai that people are just sort of beginning to begin uh bidding beginning to start
to do it's very cool but mike i gotta tell you i apologize i feel like i kind of hijacked the room a
little bit and the room was was awesome what you guys were talking about initially so i do apologize
and i promise to be more aware of that in the future not do it because the topic is really cool
but um i've i've followed you know everybody here i uh thanks a lot for to have the conversation and
and for teaching me lots of things guys i appreciate it but i've gotta i've gotta head off now okay have a
good night thank you take care take care everybody later david so i guess i could i guess i could reset
the room um so uh so so neurophysics uh we're talking about uh things like brain waves you know
brain waves have oscillations and and you know brain has rhythms nerve nerve gear we this is a topic
of brain computer interfaces it can be um you know you can talk about there's a narrow link device there's
open water device there's eeg uh eegs is you know something that measures brain rhythms uh or actually
brain uh i'm sorry brain waves uh brain it it represents uh represents brain waves i guess
ultimately but it's measuring voltages um coming from your from your brain um and uh and then you
know to to you know related to this topic is a topic of deep learning and you know in the brain itself
how the brain works how you know cognition works and and uh and and there's lots of lots of related
topics that are you know in the description and and they're also allowed and so i just like is this
popcorn is popcorn style uh meetup so if you want to bring up any topic um that is tangentially related
or ask any question go right ahead and uh so welcome everybody by the way just just to finish i think
people could look this up by the way you know just so you don't you know you could look up uh deep
mind uh grounded language development or grounded language learning and i think there's uh they've
got quite a few publications on it you could also read my patent as well so there's you could read about
it i mean obviously uh i i don't think this was a terrible terribly much interest to people in this
room but uh it is i think a fascinating topic for some yeah um do you want to share the oh go ahead
i was just going to say it's very interesting um kind of touching on when i brought up a while ago
about embodiment i think a key component that's missing from a lot of that research is embodiment
because the way that the agent is going to understand all that content that it's consuming on
the internet that's going out and finding it has to have some kind of a in the case of something like
you know abstract knowledge some kind of multi-dimensional body um which it uses a template
for mapping and synthesizing that information and giving it a kind of spatial multi-dimensional
spatial understanding of what it knows what it doesn't know and what kind of information is out
there i would almost argue that that's language too it's just not language that you're gonna
experience firsthand it's almost like you know like matrix status how do you how does this machine
communicate to your brain you know directly and put that into it i i i tuned out for a second but i but
i tuned i tuned back in right right when somebody said something about how does how do we get input
stuff back into your brain can you rephrase that was talking about how um you want it you want to say
yeah so with the stuff that deep mind's doing with a lot of this kind of abstract language-based
textual understanding and discovering information and conversing with humans um having a machine without
some kind of embodiment um is missing a key component because the way we understand the world is through
our bodies through our body maps how we relate to space and without that i don't think we're going to get
to agi um i don't think we're going to be able to create machines that really understand the world as we do
um it doesn't necessarily have to be mimicking a human body but it that that's it's a fundamental
component of our cognition and how we understand the world and how we communicate about the world
i agree with you totally kyle talking to you kyle don't i need to um basically in my mind think about
who you are and how i interface with you know how i'm going to talk to you based on what you know
like i'm automatically just going to create a mental model you try to see bump into you randomly on the
street like i'm just going to have a mental model of who you are and how to communicate with you and i
think computer wouldn't be any different um but they hopefully would be able to have an understanding of
what our mental model is to more accurately feed into that based off of you know whatever they can
gather no but our mental model is grounded in our in our physical form and our relation to our
environment same with the computer well i don't think that that's my point that's my point is the
computer needs to have that kind of model in addition to all this i agree for textual understanding
and that's something that i see missing from deep like deep mind research and all this deep learning
research we just have these neural networks but they they don't have bodies okay um well uh i mean
i in i i i don't agree but but but um but what i'm saying is like um but i don't know that i'm that
far away in in my thinking in terms of like uh so i think kyle said that yeah it doesn't have to be
like a human-like body it could be um you know maybe it could be a spider's body or a robot's body
uh or something else um but but uh but i would go a step further in saying in saying that um
that uh i don't think it has to be a body in in terms of like um what what uh
what i'm not i'm not talking about a physical body yeah well saying however where whatever
environment this being or whatever exists in it has to have some semblance of of
some kind of form that it controls and that it's experiencing whatever environment it's in
that's right that's right the medium through which it experiences its own existence and the existence
almost by definition being access it's controlling something because it's it's giving it's returning
you know in programming it's returning something whether that gets used or not by definition almost it's
it's uh controlling something all right so i mean okay but i mean like so for example if you look at
the the science experiments where you put on a vr headset and they you're looking through a camera
that is behind your own body and you begin to believe that you're actually behind your own body
right and it's like your brain is um is is in the moment spontaneously creating its representation of space
from uh the information you're giving it and and uh and so like um but like what i'm saying is like the
what i'm thinking is like the the brain's core functions are not depend are not dependent on
on an identification with the physical body in a physical space or or with a with a or within a like a
location uh i you know a specific location like you don't have to have a specific location
to have thoughts um but mike i don't think you understand what he's saying he's talking about
going beyond that and going beyond the basic understanding of of spatial temporal relationships and
getting into real life human experiences as we as we have had all throughout our lives
and and also those experiments they didn't have a control which never had a body because
the brain is very plastic and you feed it different inputs and it will be able to very quickly know that okay that
i'm used to being in this body from this perspective but now i am behind my own body
okay when i move my arm it's still the same i'm still getting the same feedback of my arm movement okay
okay okay but look here's the here's you know the problem the problem is you're defining
uh a situation where um it's not possible to have artificial general intelligence without a body
but then but but then when you're talking about like what the body is for you're saying well it's it's
it's the the it's for you're saying the artificial general intelligence uh that's only the only
artificial intelligence that qualifies as artificial general general intelligence for you is artificial
intelligence why am i stumbling artificial just call it agi just call it agi it it it is the the
only kind of agi that qualifies as agi for you is the kind that understands the human condition in a
spatial way in a body way and i'm not i'm not talking about the human condition i'm just saying that
having a sense of self of something that is the brain controls and a medium through which it
experiences the environment is fundamental to cognition on a very general level no i i so i don't
agree with that i'm sorry i mean like okay it's it's how we form memories i mean our spatial temporal
like our body map it and how we our body relates to the world it's it's fundamentally linked to how
we form memories and how we understand things well i think i mean i think that's i think that's an
interesting idea that but i but i don't think that's that's consistent with actually how memories form
i i agree with you kyle i mean i think and mika i'm still curious to hear why you don't agree with it
well um okay i mean so you so that you there is a there's a there's a part in a part of the brain
that has been called the homunculus it's associated with um uh with representations of your body your
hands uh and it's interesting because in the homunculus your hands are huge because there's a
whole whole lot of stuff to know about your hands but um but other parts of your of the homunculus are
are really tiny so like your legs are really tiny in the homunculus because there's not a lot of stuff
you need to know about your legs and um and it's just really interesting that the representation of
your body is like this warped warped thing you look up the homunculus on the web it's just really
warped version or shape of your body it's really cool but but the thing is like if like there's
nothing like it's not it's like it's kind of like saying that you need the homunculus in order
to have memory but the homunculus is in the neocortex it's not essential for memory formation
memory formation is is is uh happens everywhere in the neocortex and maybe everywhere in the brain
but it's like uh you know it's been mapped out it's been like your memory forms you know you know
with with uh this process there's short-term there's long-term memory any new data you get just on
active form forming new memory technically it might it might uh it might be disregarded
i think there's a semantic difference between michael what you're trying to say what kyle's trying to
say michael you're talking about how memories get created in the brain and and you know what what
the actual uh neuronal you know chemistry is and and that's fine there's that that's right but what
kyle's discussing is after this this process has occurred when you're actually you have formed a
alive you know or at least a simulated human then the human actually has to go about its life
and then it uses what it has in its mind to be able to interact with the world and then it forms
representations about everything that it is it uh experiences and learns so i mean it and the the
the homunculus is just one component so two things in our environment how we determine spatial relationships
it it it's linked with the homunculus so i agree with you kyle and there's again i'm not a neuroscientist
i'm not too deep into the literature but i know i've come across several articles which have talked about
how we form spatiotemporal memories and how we form those maps of environments um and it goes beyond just
the homunculus i mean it's yeah like we walk into different rooms it activates different uh memory
centers relating to those rooms and so it's like our mental model and how we think about things it's
it's tied to our bodies and the environments we're in and my point is that for an agi yeah it's not
gonna have a human body it's not gonna have a 3d body necessarily but how it understands the information
it knows on i think on a fundamental level needs to be have some kind of spatial construct
and how it knows where to go to find new information like that's what i call like the body like it could
think of it like a like a amoeba like with tentacles like it knows like this arm is for you know sci-fi
this other arm is for you know how to walk um okay but but but um okay so so um i i still don't agree
but i think i would describe what you're saying is more like a philosophy or a viewpoint um i don't want
to i don't i don't want to like you know say outright that you're wrong or anything but i just like i
don't i don't know the neural basis of what you're of of of why you um of your argument but but i
would say i would say could you say that your argument and then kind of oversimplify here but
you say your argument is basically thought needs to be physical on some level you know and that
physicality can be linked to what it's perceived in the real world but at the end of the day that
thought is physical and that's almost like almost important terms of how do you see it how it's also
manifests itself in gathering it from physical reality i mean it's a reflection of the physical
reality not necessarily physical right but also i would argue that it is as well if you take it to
the next step i mean it links to you know when we think about performing an action you know we're
firing up the same kind of centers in our brains as if we were experiencing that action
when we're sizing up another person right when we're sizing somebody up or when we're trying to
estimate uh you know any any number of the estimations that we make on a moment by moment
basis we're constantly comparing ourselves to the world we need to be able to model the world
and all those different unique aspects exactly and for agi i'm not saying it needs to be limited to a
3d or 4d world but it needs to have that kind of representation of the environment that it's in
and for an agi again this would be like a multi-dimensional environment okay i i don't know why
um i'd like to speak without being interrupted um but um i'm just so going back to kyle's um
question there there are there's i mean the hypothesis that kyle is sharing that is there are um
there are place cells and grid cells in the internal cortex of of the human being just like in a mouse
that do track uh your look your location within a room and at the minimum uh you know you and and
your in which room you're in your grid cells might my room which room you're in and your place cells
where you are in your orientation in the room and so um on that level uh you can say that uh that uh
you know at least the human ego is a directional concept in a in a in a spatial um coordination
system that's what the identity is the the identity is a is a is a is a directional concept within
within within a room right or and that's within uh other rooms and um at the minimum but uh what i'm
saying is that like you know there there are there there's there's there's you know at least you know
you've heard legends of of brain states where people reach selflessness like where they reach they
realize there is no self that it's just like a fiction like it's just like even you can um you can
completely uh have your ego dissolved with psychedelic medication for example or you can you can sit
on you can sit underneath the tree and meditate until you realize your oneness like the buddha and um
and and and let go of your of your um the philosophy that everything is essential to your ego
and um i'm only sure i'm only sharing those concepts just um just just for to say well so i mean what
what if there's another way of cognition that is not it is actually selfless um that is not uh really
um about you know the even like the directional concept of where you are and and all i'm saying
is like beyond the entering the cortex beyond the brain stem and the neocortex you have also it's
hypothesized by some that there are um place cells and grid cells in and after all throughout the
the neocortex and that these that these um these functions are in a spatial way doing uh calculations
that organize um like um things like the like the the orientation of your phone it the shapes and uh
the sights and the feeling of your phone and and and how the phone is changing and you might have
another uh neural column that's you don't have a neural column that's tracking every single object in
the environment around you uh it might be tracking the room you're in or the or or the features of
the landscape that you're in um and that you're in in and so but fundamentally it's like your brain is
uh compare it's like creating like a it's like you have a whole bunch of um it's like so imagine your
whole your whole thought space uh everything that you see like every item in the world around you
including the environment including the representation of yourself consists of patterns
patterns patterns that have spatial characteristics and patterns that have temporal characteristics
and every thought that you have has temporal and spatial characteristics every feeling that you have
has temporal and spatial characteristics like like patterns like you know frequencies vibrations
and um in in every kind of thought that every kind of feeling has
temporal spatial characteristics and if you take away one part of this picture the rest of them
remain and and what it means is like your your brain is merging the temporal and spatial
characteristics of of sounds with sights with you know what you see with what you hear with what
you feel and so this whole like the whole landscape of human the human conscious experience
the thought workspace the the experience of you you are somewhere even without yourself there is
um this sort of like uh there's this sort of like um pattern that is that is being uh that that is
being generated like generate like um like uh uh kind of like um like like like the the the crudest
possible uh comparison would be like a volumetric video right like a volumetric video inside of
like that that environment is sort of like kind of like what your brain is doing it's like creating
that and and it's but it's creating that but it's it's bringing together it's connecting uh all the
different modalities that you have you're you're everything you hear is connected to everything you
see and and if you if you took out part of it then like like like like right now you are you are missing
part of it like there's there's everything behind you is is missing right you're only you're seeing
what's in front of you right right and then and then um and then there's also a hole in in each of
your eyes and you're not even noticing there's a hole missing and so at some point if you just if
you didn't have uh any self the rest of it remains there's just all this stuff happening but there's
no self and that's like that is like this sort of like yeah if you realize this yeah all this stuff
is happening but it's not happening to anybody right it's just it's not happening to anybody
there's no self the self is just another rendering another idea it's another it's a directional concept
there's no self and so that's what i'm saying it's like there's another way of seeing it there's no
there's no actual self it's just a directional concept and it's just stuff happening you can
remove the location of your ideas and thoughts from it and it still you know retains itself
uh well i mean there's i mean that so there in a sense there's uh like there's a location of where
this stuff is right but this stuff doesn't have to be connected to a self right it could just be
this is that you could there's just a location think about the last think about the last idea
you had that had nothing to think about like the last grand idea or whatever it was some something
that you were thinking about that really had nothing to do where you were you still remember where
you were when you were thinking about that no because i think that it is intrinsically tied
so okay so look i i'm saying that um um you may have there there might be there might be spatial
memories happening but that doesn't mean they're connected to yourself uh that they might be connected
to a location and so you could just you could just interpret it a machine could interpret it as
there are memories that are happening in this location and there were there are memories that
happened in another location and and and and a human could also interpret it this way it doesn't
have to have anything to do with um with all the things that you might associate with yourself today
uh these things could just be uh things that are happening in different locations that your brain
that the brain is trying to and uh i completely agree with you and that's why i say for a machine it
would be multi-dimensional and i think our brain does this as well is that when we form
representations of the objects in our environments we're forming multi-dimensional representations one
set of dimensions is for ourself other sets of dimensions are for other things and our brain is
able to synthesize that into a self because it needs to because it's controlling a single body
in a machine with a multi-dimensional space that exists in it could have multiple bodies and it could
be experiencing multiple environments simultaneously multiple objects and they would all be represented
represented in a similar way the body and an object there's no distinction really it's just when the
you need to communicate or you need to perform actions there's only one or some number of things
that you can actually control everything else is external there's a clear delineation between what is
controllable and what is not controllable does that make sense i i hear what you're saying but but the
but the main point is i'm just differing on the on the uh on the idea that uh you need a self in order to
um have agi i i don't think you do um that was my point i think probably abstract my point a little bit to
say you need a delineation between self whether that's a multi-part self or a single part self
and that can be controlled and what is not controllable what exists outside the self so i so and
um i think that you don't need that because uh because it is possible to be because the brain is a general
learning algorithm and and because of the way the brain forms um a conscious uh thought workspace is
is a general thing what i'm saying is like if you if you had a brain like you know basically the same
thing as a brain but it was in a machine and uh you only fed the brain basically like uh you fed you fed
the brain many different kinds of data but some of the data was like stock data some of the data was
weather data uh how how you know clouds are forming the the atmospheric changes um you know it's
and and what i'm saying is like yeah if all the different you know instead of having the the kinds of
senses that we have all the senses are just like different kinds of data streams i mean all the senses
are just different kinds of data streams but like instead of like touch data stream it has
um uh you know maybe it's just like sampling of the soil moisture across the planet or something
and but the the essential but essentially the structure of the brain is going to become
conscious of this information and it's going to be able to uh it's going to be able to understand
the um the three-dimensional relationships between uh these different um different patterns uh if it uh
if that information is is correlated in a consistent way over time like if there is actually an actual
relationship between weather and soil moisture which you which i think we can say yeah there is
um and in a relationship between weather soil moisture and changes in the stock market
this machine and yeah i think there is also right um you know during a snowstorm what's going to
happen to the company is the employees are not going to be at work right um and uh i mean unless it's
unless we're in a post-pandemic world and everybody works at home anyways in which case the company might
be more productive but um the point is that like yeah so like the like you can have a machine and
artificial general intelligence has no sense of embodiment that is conscious of patterns and able
to communicate those patterns um that uh relate many high dimensional structures uh to one another
and does not have a sense of embodiment and does not have any sense of self that's my that's what i'm saying
the thing is that mike it needs to fill itself with experiences it it it yes it can it can it can
think you know what you're describing definitely could do certain things but it wouldn't have the
expanse of of human experience and stories and narratives and um i mean just you know different the deep
well of memories that that all of us have the the all of the opinions all of the uh you know you need
to be able to imbue it with with uh it doesn't have to have one personality but it needs to be able
to it needs to be able to understand the views of many uh humans and it needs to be able to exemplify
each view as if it it it embodies at least one of them and compare one to the other so they can begin
to compare and contrast uh multiple uh experiences that people can have so again this is like what i
was saying earlier that somebody that you're that there's a conflation of uh in order to be agi it
has to understand human experiences and that's that's what i'm saying is not i can't agree with you can have
an agi that doesn't understand human experiences but it is sentient and self-aware and possibly um
able to experience the weather and able to experience the soil and able to experience the stock market
and ways that are fundamentally and are fundamentally deeper than any experience that human being uh has
ever had with with with because because the amount of sensory information you could feed that
computer might be vastly greater than human senses but you're but you're in a way though you're just
arguing you're saying that these sensory experiences that you're that you're suggesting are more they're
more vivid and they're more they're deeper and and you're it's almost like you're saying well that's
better than human experience and it's not it's just different it's just a different thing and i would
also human experience is subjective like you're just saying you're basically relatable to other
things and like you can qualify them in a genre as humans but like uh i just want to point out that that is
subjective and i would argue that the correlations that are formed even without any defined self
they form a sense of self that's even if you're not controlling the weather you're not controlling
the stock market oh i i the models that the models that are formed are kind of mini selves just
being able to execute slash think inherently means there's a self because you're computing somewhere
you are computing whether you think you're whether you're a human or a hard drive somewhere that's a
that's that is an entity that's a self it belongs to a part it belongs to a greater part or a better
whole sorry or at least if i would i would add to what grant is saying it could be a self or it could at
least be some sort of machine that is is that basically takes on the character the character of
another self and be able to and can be able to say that it is represent is seeking to embody and represent
that self for a time something like that i think that thought is an emergent property of a type of
calculation and this thought is tied to many different things inherently i think that location
um is certainly one of those things because it's it's literally inherent to the process like you
literally and if if we were to you know xyz coordinate this thought it exists in certain
atoms in this like you know parameter and xyz coordinates no i was just simply saying grant i
don't know if you understood what i was saying i was just simply saying that um that the such a
such a machine would it doesn't necessarily have to have its own experiences it could it could live
its life on the internet and to be able to embody the experiences of other of other selves that have
lived but that's basically just like saying that um it's just gonna get its information you know somewhere
else like yeah you can use the internet as a source of information that's cool but it's just a source
information it's something that unique in a way no i mean no and that's why i spent all this all this
time talking about you know the sort of theory that i have which is to be able to create all the the
mechanisms all the mechanisms and all of the uh the developments that a person would need to go
through in order to begin to understand uh you know what what it would mean to have the embodiments
as kyle talks but you don't think about it to be able to experience you don't need to do that for a dog
or a cat you just it you just through an understanding of the world can easily relate to them now because
you're like oh i know cats and they're this or dogs instead of computer would probably do the same thing
with human no no i disagree i mean you're saying that that that an agi can just basically just sort
of just pick up and teach itself without but actually going through the process of what human does
no no no think about think about um intelligence as it relates to below us as it is above us
above us a computer below us a a dog i think that the the way that animal that learning is done in a
brain is is um fairly universal and so it's therefore it's therefore easy to um empathize
intelligence-wise with what's going on right i'm just saying that it's extremely difficult um
to do this is not this is none of this is trivial this is extraordinary a computer to empathize with
a human would definitely be not where we are today right and not only that not just to empathize but to
be able to to create all of the language and then all of these experiences that we have well that's
kind of what i mean is to understand to to engage and interact and empathize is kind of like a catch
all if i come off as like aggressive that's kind of how i yeah i did notice that a bit but but i
see that you're calming down a little bit though after after the first uh hour and a half i think you
come i uh yeah that's just how i am it's that some people think that way some people think that way
you know i i kept you know when i was when i was seeing you be kind of aggressive i was just thinking to
myself maybe this guy is just that's the way he needs to be able to be so intense in order to get
his thought out and that you know i don't want to you know that you know just could be just the
natural way that that's something you know it's it's not that i understand it all completely
but when i understand something i i'm passionate about it because it's like look i'm not just
you know talking on my ass like i think you want to ground it you want to ground yourself in some
you want to be able to get at some meaning and be able to establish that you got
that that meaning yeah i mean ai and and consciousness um is something that i'm like
you know super passionate about um and it's also something that i completely you know don't
understand i think i just have the basics of it but i do think that the basics of it are
one thing i i want to impart on everyone here that i think is super interesting and anyone interested in
ai in general should check it out is this thing called a chaos game um anyone know what that is
or have heard of it sounds like that sounds like okay so basically um and just one last question
to you has anyone heard of cellular automata yes steven wolfram yeah yeah i am a huge fan okay so
anyway what chaos game is is okay imagine that you draw three dots you get a piece of paper okay
i'm gonna draw three dots on it right it makes a circle or sorry triangle now i'm gonna take a die
and i'm gonna say hey if it rolls one or two sorry first uh when i have this triangle i'm gonna put a
random dot anywhere on it okay then i'm gonna take a dice or a die i'm gonna roll it and if it gets a one to
two a three to four or a five to six i'm gonna then take my marker and put it um halfway in between um
one of those three dots the triangle makes and the initial dot that i made okay does that make sense
if i keep on rolling a die and i put it halfway in between the point of the triangle that i initially
made and where my last point was it actually creates an incredibly accurate fractal so the point of this
being is that math and nature it's just literally it's emergent it's baked into what just simple
numbers like you can't create a parallel universe like it all is baked into what like the inherent
nature of everything and
this is probably what intelligence and thought comes out of too like we're not going to create an
incredibly elegant for loop what we're going to do is we're going to understand how nature itself
calculates and build on top of that using a physical kind of hardware but it's probably not going to be some
binary one and zeros or you know how we do logic gates right now
that's i i like i like i like how you uh you reduced uh you reduce the uh the pursuit of agi is a very
complex for loop that was really neat
uh so i like that you brought up cellular automata because i don't think agi is going to come i think
it's going to be something completely different than the way that our brains are structured
something that works in silicon or whatever medium and i think it's going to be something
like a cellular automata i want to uh also welcome uh george to the stage um and uh so so welcome george
hey mike sorry i've been listening and uh trying to find a uh a segue to say something but i at the
same time what you guys were talking about was so interesting that i i couldn't dare to interrupt what
you were saying uh and i hope you're not getting sick of me because uh in the last few days we've
been coming to the same rooms and and uh but just for the guys who haven't listened or listen to my
voice i heard my voice before i'm a neurologist and i'm fascinated by computer and brain interfaces
even though i have minimal understanding about uh ai's and and how technology is going to work but i
keep on thinking how this can be translated into into a uh a brain-like structure and i uh and i think
it's uh it's every day it becomes more clear in my mind but also more um uh difficult to to think
about it but um the first thing i would just like to mention to grant when you mention about the universe
and mathematics i'm pretty sure you read or you're familiar with mark's mark tag mark's books and uh
our mathematical universe is a uh is a masterpiece have you ever read it no i haven't i i only know
steven wolf from from what um someone said earlier christ for christ's sake go and buy the book now
or get the audiobook our yeah what's it what's i call it i'll buy right now our mathematical universe
universe by mark tag mark uh next tag mark amazing read and he has another follow-up code um life 3.0
which talks about one of my friends i have i have that book one of my buddies like really wanted me to get
it i'll get the book you just said right now so reads mathematical universe first because i think it's a
better sequence of doing this but he but but yeah he so he talks all about how everything we know
every single concept can be translated into mathematics from the most biological concept to
the most abstract concept everything is explained by mathematics it's amazing and then life 3.0 he talks
about how he talks about life point 1.0 would be the primitive man caveman life 2.0 is uh industrial
revolution and then life 3.0 will be ai and whatever comes after what we're living now so it's a it's
very very very interesting one of the things that i sorry sorry i i'm back to cut you off and i'm really
bad at that but it's i think one of the interesting things that uh regarding ai is just that um when it
comes about the singularity or whatever and obviously no one knows what that's going to look like but
i forget which um you know scientific author was talking about this but basically i part of me really
thinks what will happen is that humans will almost have like a father figure so to speak of it's like
you know you're living we're not we're not like slaves to this computer but no it's the opposite
so they what's what's what this book said talks so this guy talks about that there are three
possibilities possibility number one which is the one that everyone's scared of is that they will
take over and will be slaves possibility number two will be that we will be co-workers and one will
complement the other so they will be much better than us in some aspect i don't think it is a day though
i don't think it's yeah yeah i'm sorry it's just for the lack of a better expression or a word for it
and the third possibility is that ai would be working for us and we will be on a uh an eternal
no i don't think it is but i thought oh this just took a turn is we just took a turn to the future
what about a fourth because what i think it is is it's it's gonna be it's gonna be um not they
because it's singular because yes and no but yeah in a sense it's singular because they're gonna just
work you know it because um so i can't agree with that it will it'll grow on top of it i'm paraphrasing
someone i'm not i'm not saying that this is what i believe because i don't know what to believe in
imagine a hundred years ago we woke up okay a hundred years from now we wake up we go to start our day
and we ask alexa basically whatever the hell we want and you don't have to worry about a job because
it's all taken care of but you could ask it imagine asking like god imagine asking almost like an all
knowing being whatever the hell you want you can just ask it a question you could ask it what you
wanted to do that day you could ask it how you could get a date whatever the hell you want like it's
literally your premium sidekick but the thing is everyone has that everyone has it you're living in
almost a utopia of sorts because it's true knowledge and you this knowledge itself wants
to get better and us as people we want the knowledge to get better because it helps us
and it's a symbiotic relationship and it also like um is more it it's like gravity it'll suck
things into it to help it compute so it's not like there's gonna be a bunch of them because that's
it that's that's not how it's supposed to that's not how it's gonna go so i i don't agree with that
um that you know like uh so the and there's a bunch of novels like that that um that deal with like
the future with multiple ais and um and and the thing is like um right now the case the situation is
like there's like an arms race to be the first to build sentient ai because if you're if someone
else builds the the self-aware network sentient ai first then potentially they could use that to take
over the world so you need to build your own so you can defend against the other person's
self-aware every country needs to build their own self-aware sentient ai to defend against
the another country doing the same thing because imagine if um you know like we we hear a lot of
scary we hear a lot of scary stories about uh some of the some of the countries that are very far away and
and uh they they uh you know they have uh practices that you know late labor camps and and uh and
lacks of and lack of freedoms and all these you know horror stories that we don't uh we don't like and
and what if that what if that country got uh ai first they could they could enslave the world
and and i i okay it has nothing to do with that it just has to do uh so i just um i'm tired of
interruptions thank you for that um but uh let's just move on can i ask you uh or any of you because
again as i mentioned before my knowledge is not that great in the technological field but i've been
reading a lot about ai and and things like that so the way the brain works for consciousness
is quite interesting because obviously it's not a computer it's a it's a group of computing systems
right so you have obviously your cortex which is probably what uh what gives you the action that
makes you behave the way you are but there are several other structures that are involved but
there's a key structure that's called the thalamus which is the relay so most of the information that
come from your body to your brain and most of the information that go from your brain to your body
and most of the information that that goes through this relay called thalamus and that's probably why
when you were talking previously when you're trying to retrieve a memory you remember uh the where you
were the smells you scented the if it was cold or or hot and this structure also retrieves information
from your memory centers from your uh from the uh hippocampus in your temporal lobes
and and gives you clues as to how you're going to get where you want to get with the sort of
information you're dealing with so this structure the thalamus is is very unique and very interesting and
and i and i what i wonder whether the computer systems that are involved in generating or creating
emma and a form of ai have a similar structure that's working on trying to integrate all the
centers and try to modulate what kind of sensations are important or not or the equivalent of sensations
what kind of memories are important what kind of memories are not important uh so do you guys have
any ideas to whether there's any that's a very big question you asked there george the networks aren't
that complex yet maybe google has something maybe google has something on their servers but
but i think it's something that if if we're thinking that we we want to have a machine that's a brain-like
structure maybe a way of trying to get there is by having such a structure that can get all the
information that you want from all different areas that you're creating like for example if you want to
have a computer that's not only good in playing chess but good in playing chess and having a conversation
with you and and uh also uh planning your supermarket listed on all these things you probably have to
have a a central or a hub where you can um modulate all this information and that you have available
and try to make it going through a pipeline that's a common pipeline that makes you have the particular
action that you completely agree with you and there has been something recently i came across
modular neural networks i think it came out of deep mind research um which is kind of going in that
direction where you have multiple neural networks specialized in you know very specific tasks
but then you link them together basically something like that hypothalamus that allows the various features
and ways that they represent things to kind of transfer between the networks but it's still we're very
we're very far away from anything mimicking what the brain does i think so do do you think that the
solution is maybe to abolish this idea of building something that looks like a brain and try to find
something an alternative way of having uh an artificial consciousness or intelligence yes yep that's what
we've been talking about here for for quite a while i'm sorry i was very late i'm so sorry so um um you
know i i was going to say to jeremy's point i think alan turing alan turing uh had this idea that that um
uh that that uh we we would solve ai without um the computers would be able to solve consciousness
without being able to without we wouldn't we wouldn't need to know how like if you just have enough
calculations like it would it would just like you know the black box would would um you know you'd run
run algorithms until the computer is able to just do what we do and and and we wouldn't answer it is
that right jeremy do you know about that well i don't know a lot about it no but i mean i know about the
concept i mean it depends i mean running algorithms but i mean it just depends you know this gets very
tricky i mean in his day he's talking about running algorithms on what you know and running what
mathematical algorithms or you know what you know it was unclear as to what what what type of
algorithms he had and what what they were supposed to do right i think that that gets to a deeper
question is even if you had a machine that basically did everything a human does is it actually
conscious no but i think i think mike i think i understand what your question was it was a sort of a
sideways question what you were sort of saying isn't that what you're trying to do jeremy and and so
how do you how are you going to be able to do what well how are you going to be able to do that is
that what you're waiting no well what i'm saying is like he is like so so he believed that any machine
could emulate any other machine and that um and uh and and so the end but but the idea is that like
he he was like he was the guy who was like yeah we don't need to understand how neurology actually
works uh to i think we do i mean again i don't don't get me wrong i think we do need to understand
neurology and how it works i'm but what i'm saying is is that that there there is a way before we fully
understand all of the neurology there is there's there appears to be at least in you know a way to
be able to mimic the way that people learn in in the conditions and contexts and experiences and in
in which in the and in the developmental order in which humans learn and so that if that can be done
and if that can be applied in a universal algorithm such that it is it has a template ability and with
with wild cards so that it can be able to be used and reused over and over again to be
able to allow for human questioners to be with the aid of smart humans to be able to use these
algorithms to ask questions of the world it would be an interpreter for smart people to be able to ask
questions of the internet or of other databases or you know of of any any data that you can uh
accumulate and then the answers could be could be drawn and then it would begin to be begin to have
all of the answers and then all of the the language and all of the the knowledge and then all of the
questions and answers all of it together and then from that you would begin to actually have the
information required to be able to make something to be able to not necessarily to make a person
but to be able to make sense the way a person can at least make sense of information the way i'm
talking to you i'm generating uh language to begin to get it that what it is to be able to take
information and be able to create a smart question out of knowledge and then to be able to take all
that information and make and make that question uh force that question so that it it can go out and
actually find answers and then to be able to sift through those answers and differentiate those
answers and pick which answers you you find useful and to be able to incorporate that into your
knowledge base and so i'm talking about a the the the most basic type of agi would be first you know
that would be the the first thing that you would get to and so that that's that's a general conception
of of where i'm getting at okay that's a very abstract statement that's a bunch of that's very
abstract that i've what i've said here would require a lot more explanation i just wanted to say
hello and welcome to cecile did you want to say anything hi um hi uh i'm sorry
i'm late to the party and i'm going out again now but i'm glad that this room um came to be like
maybe six from six hours ago yeah so um i would just like to listen in for now all right um so yeah
so going back to um so so in terms of like you know what i'm doing in terms of studying neurology i would
say you know i would say that people that the the architects of deep learning um and there's many
but but maybe some of the leading names would be like like um like yanli kuhn and jeffrey hinton
and and yashio bengio and there's but there's a lot there's a lot of people who are architecting
deep learning and um but they but they but these folks are you know the approach is like they they're
not trying to do computational neuroscience they're not trying to make it super accurate they're they're
they're um they're building they're they're building like uh you know not not not not the
airplane that has the bat wings like the one that came before the right brothers but but just the
airplane that uh achieves liftoff just the minimum amount of of intelligence uh to for that a machine
needs to do that's not it doesn't have to bring the rest of biology with it like what what is not
essential about biology and um and and just in just in just uh just focusing on that but it's not
like they're ignoring neuroscience they are these folks are do study neuroscience and they study
neuroscience because they're in computational biology because they're looking for new new uh ways
to build uh new kinds of airplanes that are capable of basically um you know neural networks that
have new capabilities right how can we uh how can we make our neural networks uh more capable and that's
sort of like so when i so i mean that is so then you have guys like jeff hawkins and jeff hawkins wants
to build a machine that is that is that is really like getting all like being very precise about doing
things the way the brain does to the but still but still in a way that's like he's trying to eliminate
the non-essential stuff like just isolate the stuff that's essential to intelligence um and that's sort
of like my like my so my take is a little bit different in that i'm really just like i am i guess
i guess it's i guess it's it's a bridge between both right between hot between uh jeff hawkins and
jeffrey hinton like it's it's like i am really trying to to understand neurology in a deep way and i have
been uh and for for since 2005 and so that i um have this like uh really deep understanding of
neurology and so that i can so that i can construct artificial neural architectures that uh you know
basically um basically really um you know uh deep learning networks that are truly 3d uh deep learning
neural networks um and and uh and that's what i think that you what that is what we have in the brain is
is um is that um uh uh a neural circuit uh really represents a deep uh 3d a truly 3d uh with six
degrees of of interaction uh neural network and that it is the inputs to this neural network are
are coming in every direction they're coming uh from above and from below they're coming from the left
and to the right they're coming from in front and in back and and they're also going out in every
in every direction so it's a truly 3d neural network and um and uh you know right now we have
in in uh if you look up you can see i mentioned this earlier i don't know who was here when i
mentioned it but um but yeah if you look up recurrent neural networks and look up um but look up uh not
recurrent neural networks i'm sorry i look up um i think it's uh the term is let's see the term
bi-directional bi-directional neural network so yeah so this is this came up earlier and um
um or bi-directional lstm and and so here we are we have people playing with the the the neural
architecture and the and we're taking and we're saying okay we've got these inputs and we now we
can we can send them forward and backward at the same time and we can we can send that we can you
know take the inputs and we can send that we can have two neural networks basically so we take the
inputs instead of taking instead of taking inputs running them in one direction to an output we're
going to take the inputs and we're going to send them in two directions to two neural networks to
two different outputs and then back and and so and so um and then and then well okay well what if we did
that with what if we did like what if we had uh took the input and at the same time ran it through
three different neural networks sent it in three different directions and then sent it back right
and and then so like but now like like and then and also looped it what if we looped it as well
and now what if we what if we have what if we're sending it in six different directions
right and that and and then i think yeah so and and they all loop right they all loop back so they
go in six different directions in both ways in different in each direction and then they loop back
and then and then and so now you're like just barely like um creating a metaphor of what the
brain brain is doing and um just barely uh this is because this is like a whole bunch more but like
yeah but like um this is um there's there's so much more to to to that and and but but we can't even
uh get close to what the to what the brain is doing unless we like expand unless we keep looking at the
brain really deeply and expand the the um then the if we look at the neurophysics of brain oscillations
and um the the the the the transmission of of patterns and the rhythms of the patterns and the
directions of the patterns and the flows of information then uh that information will help us
to construct a next level um uh artificial neural networks that that we can then you know they we can
simplify to just the essential functions and then give those a shot so going back to what jeremy's
model was um we take our more advanced cognitive neural networks and uh and then run them through
jeremy's program of training them the way you would you you would uh uh train train a child for example
to to not just train a child but for me it's not just training a child i start with a child and then i go
into into adulthood like you're literally you're training in through all the all of the known
experiences all of the known uh psychological and linguistic and um experience you know interactions
that it would have uh you know all of these sort of like nitsian universals that that that that you
would really need to be able to establish what it is that language actually language in in an environment
actually means in in terms of the actual like how i'm able to understand you talk to me and how you
understand me when i'm talking to you right now yeah yeah so so from from from uh childhood to
adulthood and into the present moment and beyond um and uh but um but yeah so like my like i'm saying
my point was just that yes so jeremy you have a process of of training which is but it's just
really which is realistic uh in your in your it's i call it i call it extremely uh extremely highly
supervised okay okay um and uh but that's your focus and my my focus is like on on new on
experimental new architectures i think by by contrast by contrast um and that's it that sounds
about right okay um and it's not i think it's not that you're not also considering experimental
architecture that just um that's just our focus today on in the conversation uh so i think we're
about done um for the night it was uh from 6 to 12 i want to thank everybody for coming and uh maybe
maybe we'll give every speaker a chance to say uh something else in closing but i'll go ahead and
meet myself yeah thanks mike uh i uh i enjoyed uh you know i enjoyed the comment i enjoyed uh comment
your thoughts today uh kyle and uh i i i enjoyed the other guy's thoughts a little less it was a little
bit difficult to deal with but um still still a smart fellow and and micah i think we every time
that we meet you know and to kyle too every time we meet we sort of learn a little bit more about
what the other's doing and it's a it's a sort of long winding road but i i really appreciate you
know we're some of the few people on here that that actually stick it out with each other and
sort of have the patience to sort of you know iterate with the other and sort of imagine just what
the heck the other one might be up to and you know whereas most of these conversations deteriorate so
quickly into into chaos so i really appreciate the uh stick-to-itiveness that that we all seem to
possess sure um and then cecilia you can go next and um ali you've been hanging out do you want to
come up and say something before we go they should make it so that the people on on the bottom should
be able to at least talk to the people on the top sometimes you might be cutting out cecilia you just
maybe try again if you want you want to try one more time cecilia do you want to try to take your
microphone off so that you could speak yeah it's okay so sometimes sometimes her her uh she said she's
had been having signal problems this week um because of a glitch in clubhouse so um hailey
yeah uh well even if i was late to the party i'm so glad you see how we know what cecilia is we
know that she is she finished talking and she didn't finish but we still can fill in some of
the blanks we can't hear you cecilia but i think we all filled in some of the blanks as to what it
is that you were implying yeah um yeah that's okay so um and cecilia is very glad to be here but
she's late to the party is what that's what we heard and then uh her she cut out but that that's um
that's okay that's okay um well i'll go ahead and give ali a chance to talk and and then we'll go
ahead and end it yeah thanks um this was very interesting discussion i didn't have a chance
to listen to all of it but uh i had to make dinner and now i have to go to sleep but the parts that i
did listen to i did learn a lot so thank you for holding this room and i will drop in again later
when you are back on again thank you great thank you it's all it's all been uh recorded and uh so
i'll i'll share a copy online and people can listen to it again if they want oh that's cool that's cool
perfect yeah that is by the way michael can i ask one one quick uh question yep do you know because i
used to work with this guy uh ben gertzel do you do you know what what's what's going on with
him these days is he i hear you move back to america um you know uh i cecile cecile might know
more and maybe she maybe uh but why don't you why don't why don't you um message me and and i'll
connect you with cecile or if you can message her directly that's fine also but but i think she might
know a little bit i was just curious i was just curious that's all you know i think she's i think
she's more on top of what's going on with ben than i am so but but we could probably get you the
answer later on oh that's that's cool although although well anyway well yeah i'll talk to you
later where would the recording be by the way um so if you if you follow me on twitter um i'm gonna
post it there and uh um yeah and if you if you if you if you want to make sure that um that you catch
it um you could also just uh send send me a message in about a week okay so set your calendar
send me a message about a week in about a week and i'll i'll send it to you for sure by then
okay cool this is gonna be a cool conversation i think yeah yeah i i think i'm gonna i think i'm
gonna uh do these uh very often so um yeah very often because because you know why because um because
i think that um you know we we have a lot happening with um uh with neuroscientists and uh
and deep learning folks and bci folks you know on clubhouse but but you know and i i expected that
we'd be seeing a group like this every single day but uh unfortunately there isn't a group like this
every single day and i think there needs to be and that's why that's basically my thinking here is
that like you know but i but but i like before i commit to doing it every day i want to make sure
that i can i can do two things at the same time like i i can actually work on uh i can actually do
my work while hosting this uh this this uh meetup so if i can do both um at the same time then i can
just have this like open sort of open chat every day but um but i have to see if i can do that before
i before i commit to it that's what i'm thinking sounds good all right uh so i'm gonna say good
night and um good night everybody good night yeah good night everyone good night see you again next
time good night
