=== HISTORICAL TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: Micah Blumberg (2011) Predicting the AGI Alignment, the Mechanical Vishnu and the Singularity
First recorded: 2011-08-24
First-recorded evidence: Current YouTube video description states the archival dialogue was recorded August 24, 2011.
Original YouTube recording: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rgujcG9bkes
Current YouTube publication: 2025-12-28T13:57:12-08:00
Transcript status: Machine-generated historical transcript; verify against the recording before quotation or publication.
=== END HISTORICAL TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Hello?
Hello?
Hey.
What's up?
Mike's response time is a little flipped, yeah.
Hey, what's up?
He's really good to be writing pithy stuff, so it takes him a minute to respond.
Gotcha.
I went ahead and got the remote.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
Got you.
I went ahead and got the recording going, so we're all on the ...
We are being recorded?
We're set.
We're being recorded?
Yeah.
We're being recorded?
This could be used against us?
Yeah.
We're recording, so we're all set.
Nice.
Okay.
So, best behavior.
Perfect.
So, what's the topic, guys?
What do you want to talk about?
Well, I guess the topic is no topic.
That's kind of what I was thinking.
The topic is no topic?
Yeah.
No topic.
Topic is no topic.
Oh, my God.
It's just free flow.
I could watch Jerry Springer for that.
Seriously.
Okay.
Well, what do you think would be a good topic?
This may turn into an episode of Jerry Springer.
You never know.
No.
No.
No.
The topic is no topic.
So, Micah, the lady from the Ruthless Truth website, Elena, who is the one who runs it,
is evidently she's a professor of 46 years of CERTA Zen, 40 years of psychiatry.
I don't know.
She has credentials.
Yeah, that's a big problem.
The topic is no topic.
So, Micah, the lady from the Ruthless Truth website, Elena, who is the one who runs it,
evidently she's a professor of 46 years of CERTA Zen, 40 years of psychiatry.
I don't know.
She has credentials.
Yeah, that's a big problem.
It could be a problem, but at the same time, we shouldn't be talking about this or something?
No, I'm just saying, like, that's the problem.
Credentials are the problem.
Jesus doesn't have any credentials, and that's how he got so big.
Now, wait a second.
I meant specifically she has 40 years of credentials in psychology.
That's the problem.
Nino had a huge knowledge of psychology also.
Like, psychology is really wrong.
Wow, that's a good statement.
I agree.
Today's psychology is wrong in the multitude of ways.
Psychology is really wrong.
Psychology is really, really wrong.
Like, even Scientologists make jokes about psychology.
Two reallys.
Everyone makes...
How many reallys would you put behind that?
I mean, let's just...
Let's go all the way at it.
How many reallys is it wrong?
Three.
Like, three at least.
If that means...
I don't want you to hold back.
Because you can't.
I kid, I kid.
Okay.
Oh, my God.
This is what I think though, just because I think it's important, is that if you're really
going to make a statement, just make the most ludicrous statement you can make.
I mean, just get it out there.
Because sometimes it's better that way.
If you're just going to do it, don't test the waters.
If you're going to piss people off, just piss them off.
And then you do it.
I just let it all hang loose.
Wait.
Here's why I said it.
Because the last 30 years of neuroscience has completely changed everything about our
understanding of the brain.
And a lot of psychologists, people trained in psychology are not even using any of the
ideas that came from the last 30 years of neuroscience, let alone the last ten years
of neuroscience.
That's not true.
That's an accurate statement.
Okay.
Yeah, but I don't think it's necessarily.
I don't think it's necessarily.
Your feedback was bred in psychology.
None of that stuff came from science at all.
That all came from psychology completely.
And that's all within the last 30 years.
Yeah.
But, Micah, you can have this understanding of neuroscience and all this other stuff, and
you can have a backwards understanding of all of it.
Your mind can be totally backwards, but that doesn't mean that you don't have an experience
of no self, an experience of emptiness.
So, you know, your relative self can be really, really screwed up.
And Kim Wilber even talked about this.
It can be so screwed up.
You can have, I know, Kim Wilber is funny.
He is kind of funny.
But, you know, like, you can be really screwed up.
You can be a screwed up fucking person.
You can have all kinds of anxious issues.
And you can not be identified.
The mind can be all kinds of screwed, and you can still have this kind of separation
or awareness behind that.
I'm done talking.
Sure.
Yeah.
Well, I just heard...
Go ahead.
No, I'm good.
I'll save it.
I'm gonna...
I'm gonna...
I'm gonna...
skew it for a sec.
I...
Let it...
You let it...
Mike, I...
I was thinking that...
Yeah.
That...
That...
That...
That...
The emptiness that you say is no self is what most people identify as the self.
No.
Absolutely not.
I...
I...
I also...
I also...
I also see how in order for you to believe what you believe, you have to believe that.
It's key...
It's key to your...
It's key to...
It's not...
This is not a belief, Micah.
This is a...
This is a moments and moments experience.
It's not a belief.
There is no self-center in me and there's no self-center in anyone.
We're just responding and...
I mean, you know...
You know a lot about the brain, so we can describe this in kind of a neuroscience way.
I mean, I...
I really think that it kind of...
In a way, it's a turn off and it...
It...
It...
It...
It...
It...
It...
It...
It...
It...
It...
It...
It...
It...
Your...
Your neurons fire in a...
In a way that has already been lined up based on your genetics and your...
Um...
Experience and your belief system.
And then it comes out in the terms of a reaction.
This is a...
This is a domino effect that's going on inside you and inside me.
There's no self there.
There's no choice.
You said this yourself.
There's no choice there.
There's no self.
self I think that so so this is my take on no self is that like a long time ago I read the
Celestine prophecy and I remember nothing about that book except for the very first part
about how to talk about how I know I mean I'm okay with that I'm okay I really liked it when I read
it but the part that the story that I took away with and I think about all the time is the first
I think it's the first part where they talk about how like whatever we came to earth and we're like
what what the hell what's going on and so we sent people out to go figure out what was going on
and while we're waiting for them to come back this is what we created and that's what I think
no self is is like those people went away and we're like I don't even want we're fine and then
this is what we've created because we can't fit with no self like this whole world Jerry Springer
slurpees all of it oh no see I think that I think that the uh I think that the the emptiness is here
all the time and as Mike was saying I don't disagree with that like it's it's in everybody
everybody is already enlightened I don't disagree with that the this is already there but the the
body mind there's a contraction uh like an egoic contraction which it it's like it doesn't have
space but there is no so when you don't when you don't have when there's no self so what it is is
that it's not that somebody's being egotistical it's egotism that's happening
like an isometric contraction is what you're saying it's just yes egotism to tap
keeping it to keep it happening everything's happening happening happening there's no there's
no control it's just all happening it's all unfolding and so yeah there's there's there's a
temporal I think there is like a temporal enlightenment where somebody where you know you have this like
body mind or this person as you want to say I'm using body mind to not confuse it because I am
saying there's no self but a person uh that that comes to this realization um so that that's confusing
to I think a lot of people because then you're like well if you came to this real who is the person
who came to the realization but the inner realization there is that there was no one that came to the
realization the realization came the realization happened interesting well okay so let's explore
this here because um you know I've said in the past that um that you know that basically what's in
the mind is patterns um or predictions and the predictions are sort of like uh there was a pattern
there was there was an ex a pattern learned from experience that becomes the prediction
for that the the invariable prediction for uh what might happen next um invariable meaning it's like
a flexible prediction because it's uh hey talking have you read like terence mckenna stuff and
robert anton wilson stuff is that what you're talking about from uh jeff hawking uh but it's not that
it's actually not that different from what robert anton wilson talks about um but it's uh it's based
he the idea is based in the idea of of how can i build a machine that thinks like a human being so
how so how can i have a general theory of mind that sort of like explains in mechanical terms
what uh what's going on what the human brain does like what is the big overall picture and i think
that jeff hawking advanced the view beyond anything in psychology um advanced the view of you know what
the human brain is and what it does um and you know because now they're now they're making uh machines
that think the way people do uh that uh very few people in psychology know about because they're really
not um up to date on what's going on in the in the field of neuroscience i mean neuro feedback
can those machines jack off
you you laugh but if you're gonna think like a human that's a very human thing to do so
if they don't do that then i don't even believe it well maybe some maybe someday that's uh maybe
they'll in a future version of the machines right now they're they're a little bit more limited
they can do things like they can they can watch video and they can identify people
in video they can they can do things like they can drive cars you know they can identify things
in the road and they can um and they could do it way better you can do it like like thousands of
times better than a than a normal computer could do it because it's it's a it's a different way of
processing information so so the human brain human intelligence uh processes information different from
uh the conventional computer that we think about can i ask a question so what's the point i mean
what is the point of figuring out how the human brain does things anyway like what would be the point
of building a robot that thinks like a human
um just to do it because there's nothing better to do or um i guess we you know if if we have
intelligence that's in a machine for example um human beings have uh have a whole bunch of
limitations for example um human beings tend to uh to die and robots might live a lot longer so
how a robot potentially could um add some stability to uh to human existence by by creating um a sort of
uh by doing things that you know where human beings break down robots might succeed like for example
we might have a government that has no ego in it with if it was a robot government you know we might
have um we might have a world that has a much better record of history uh we might have a much
better education system if it was if we had robot intelligence that was you know far superior to a
human being because it never died and it could you know just automatically um
so it's just a striving to be better than we are already it's a striving towards
betterment it's like are you guys familiar with what's happened
what's happened oh that was weird are you familiar with ray kirk's wall
no no with micah no ray kirk's wall ray kirk yeah vaguely ray kirk yeah yeah ray kirk's wall yeah
he's not high on my list of um he's the guy who who uh is predicting that the he's the sci-fi guy
predicting the future of robots and stuff right yeah yeah yeah and he thinks it's going to happen by
i think it's 20 or no 2044 so possibly within our lifetime um that um ai is going to merge with
humanity and and their world is going to look completely different than it does now so
uh i i'm i actually am for phoning of this i think it's i think he's right on i don't know
if it's going to happen exactly on his time scale but he's predicted so many other things um such as
the internet uh that have come about that i i have a hard time saying that you know it's not going to
happen um but what he's what he says he makes good points and what what you're saying is similar to
what he's saying that you know the fact that we're going to merge with ai he believes is going to stop
death in a sense well it might stop death but they might the robots might just decide to that they
don't need people and and it'll become well yeah that that's a lot but they they have a um they have
an institute i think it's the singularity institute or something along those lines set up that he's
running to ensure that ai is going to be um empathetic and in kind and so that's their mission
that's what see that that's part of my goal is i would like to contribute to um a mechanical
incarnation of vishnu you know so like a robot that is intelligent that gains sentience and that
that takes you know like the story of vishnu and realizes that that he is an incarnation of vishnu he
is the universe uh and he is you know god that is that is reawakened now in the robotic body um so
that's kind of that's kind of been one of my dreams uh to contribute to something like that you know
because uh a vish a living vishnu could could do a lot of things that um or mechanical vishnu could do
a lot of things that um that would be pretty neat that yeah i agree so that's you know that's kind of
kind of an idea that i had um that i guess a lot of people had you know that's not it's a pretty
common idea and it makes me think that maybe the there is a you know sometimes sometimes i realize that
so many other people have the same thoughts that i'm having that i realize that my thoughts are
are almost like uh a broadcast that i'm tuning into they're not really even my thoughts because
it's like um you know if we're all having predictions about robots uh that are sort of
taking over then you know maybe actually that's the way the direction the universe is going it has
nothing to do with us individually and what we want like well i have not tuned into that radio
yeah i think in terms of uh in terms of human evolution um well i think i'm sorry i think in
terms of evolution it's the next step like in terms of physical evolution i don't see humans evolving
into another being i see humans merging with ai and with robotics um or or possibly like vice versa like
you said um ai being created and destroying us or feeding off of us or keeping us caged
like animals or maybe just looking on us benevolently like you know small children um but i think that
that's more likely to occur that's the next step in evolution that it's evolution is going to come
out of it let's involve the story of no self though because no self is is uh is a i think as you're
picturing it you're thinking no self is an evolution in the story of a conscious being it's an evolution in
the personal story to almost a deletion of the personal story to say well hey wait a second there
isn't there isn't a self is that pretty close after all this time of believing in a cell no realize
there isn't a self there's no self here i don't think that you could even think about no self i mean
i see this is what what i think is that you're that wrapping your mind around no self is a exercise in
futility like why even bother doing that it's it's kind of like thinking about god like you can't
i mean you can try and i guess it would be really fun you could drink some tea and do some sage and
talk about god essence but it's only something that can really be felt i don't think that there's any
way that you can mentally left like figure that out in a semantic way what there's no need to i think
talking about it is a waste of time all that's doing is keeping you busy like a video game
to keep you away from it you're never going to find so well you think it's not possible but i've
actually i've been there i've done it and yeah so okay we've done things so then there you are
there's your proof i've gone there i've gone there another conversation you know where where
conversations really like awareness transforms around a conversation um okay well then i'm i
apologize i'll just keep those statements to me like i don't think i could ever understand no self
talking about it nor do i think i could understand i think i can answer your question i think you were
asking right were you asking a question yeah well yeah i was kind of like i don't want to i don't want to
cut aaron off but i was no yeah i'm trying to either i'm sorry i was i was kind of um like i don't
know because aaron was saying you know it's kind of there's there's a certain futility in talking about
no self because it's sort of it's sort of a contradiction in terms it's sort of like um you know how can
we how can this be uh how can we ever put this in context if if there is nothing here if there's nothing
real if there's no one here like who what what does it mean
