=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: Mostly nonsense about time Perspective Bosons Events
First recorded: 2022-07-29T09:46:18.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/0c1c6dc7-fe89-4c81-a4cc-f79e30677360
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
It could be that all of space-time is happening concurrently, like, I mean, the past and the future could be happening at the same time, but from our limited perspective, it seems that it's happening in a linear sequence, where some events come before others, but from the perspective of space-time, it could all be happening at once, like, everyone could be living at the same time, from the universe's perspective.
And so, in a sense, you could imagine that, at some point, the past events and future events could become connected together, because what's happening in reality is that the minds that experience reality are beginning to connect past events and future events correctly,
from how they were incorrectly connected before, so that the past and future become concurrent, so that it's no longer past and future, it's just one ever-present now.
And so, in a sense, that sort of, like, implies that from our perspective, we could talk to the past, and from the past's perspective, they could talk to the future, it implies that, but in reality, that's not what's happening.
What's happening is that the two different realities at two different times are actually just sort of rendered in a linear way, but are actually happening at the same time.
So, we have this bizarre perspective, which is dream-like, so what I'm suggesting is that linear time is this dream from being disconnected from other people,
and that when we enhance our connection with other people, the timeline might seem to be bridged, it might be surreal, but that's only because of our perspective.
It's like the idea of relativity, like Einstein's special relativity, like your perspective on time, like, something that looks like the future to you could have been rendered in the past,
and something that was rendered in your past could be the future for someone else, right?
And that's sort of like, but that's, that is actually an illusion, because, in, in, it's an illusion because, uh, it's, because the distortion is, is, in some, in some sense, created by the fact that fermionic, um,
the fermions, um, the fermions basically move, um, in relative time that is much slower than, um, the, the, the time rate of bosons, or the, the absolute, or, you know, let's say, let's say, the hypothetical absolute of time,
um, whereas the, um, the, um, uh, fermions are, are moving in a slower time, and so there's these distortions that come to, distortions of reality that, that sort of, like, created the illusion of a timeline from the perspective of rendered beings,
the beings, the beings whose minds are rendering reality that is, uh, based on this distortion of, um, yeah.
So, it's interesting, it's like, yeah, so the idea is, is that we have all these pockets of fermionic, a fermion time that, at some point, might be synced up,
and so we might have, like, there's these vast distances of time between people, but, at some point, all of that might be, all of that might converge, in our perspective, as our, as the collective rendering knits it all together,
and so, stuff that, like, so, like, so, like, it's like my dream of, you know, the universe was once this dark place, and all of a sudden it lights up, like, the whole universe becomes visible,
and everything becomes understandable, and it's like the light switch in the universe turned on.
And we can see everything, right?
And then, that idea is sort of, like, well, if time were to speed up, then, yeah, the universe would be a lot brighter.
But, in order for time to speed up, essentially, our perspective is changing.
And if we can change our perspective with, um, extend the brain, or artificial brains, and basically, or, you know, extend our lives with machines to uploading our minds with machines,
and, um, then, um, then, uh, we will be able to, um, see the universe on a vaster timescale,
and what looks dark now will look bright at, um, at boson time, and, uh, or at absolute time.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
