=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: Nov 3rd 2023- y0036 Playing chess & talking about book
First recorded: 2023-11-04T02:20:55.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/8e51d34f-cca2-4f4d-8d44-7353241a9af4
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So there's, um, so C4 to C8 is the neuroscience book. Neuroscience, specifically, because the rest of it is more like a combo of, like, overhead science and, like, crystal, universal. So there's three sections. So the first section is, um, about brain. The first section is three cycles, or three chapters.
Okay. The second, in, in the 2000 book, um, Rhythms of the Brain by Giorgio Pisaki. Okay. Like, he named his chapter Cycle. Cycle? Okay. Yeah. Cool. And also my, the new mindset of the brain is my EEG business. Cool. Okay. So after Pisaki, and after my, um, so he named his chapter Cycle.
So I, I, I, I had the idea to name my chapter Cycle. Well, I, and, um, that, um, also it's related to, like, the concept of the organization of the brain at a high level.
So Douglas Hopstadler talked about the brain as a feedback loop, a strange feedback loop. Um, and that played into, that was a big part of the brain.
There's three chapters. There's three chapters, and that's about brain-computer interfaces. It's about the feedback loop of the mind. Neomind, so the neomind cycle means. It's, uh, that's another word for neurofeedback.
Because neurofeedback is a feedback loop where you, um, you, um, you, uh, you see or hear, or see and hear, um, activity that represents your brain, um, firing. Your, your, your brain activity.
So, um, that means it's a feedback loop because, um, when you see and hear your brain activity, you're further changing your brain activity in response to what you're seeing and hearing, which is further changing what you're seeing and hearing.
So that's the feedback loop. So, so what you're thinking, so what you're thinking, like the representation of your brainwaves is going into the computer.
It's being turned into a representation of lights and sound. This is my EG program that I, that I, that I started my business, that I started my, the reason I came to San Francisco is to start this business originally, like 10 years, 11 years ago, 10 or 11 years ago.
And it's, so I call it neomind cycle because the concept of neurofeedback is a feedback cycle between yourself, the computer, and your brainwaves.
Okay. So, so the, so the neomind cycle, the, the, it's about brainwaves interfaces and brainwaves interfaces in the first section, which is three chapters, which is three cycles, three cycles, three cycles.
Three cycles. Okay. Three cycles in the first section. About the interface loop.
Yeah. Yeah. There's three cycles in the last section. Okay. Three.
Six. A section. Yeah. And there's eight, there's eight cycles in the middle section. Okay.
So that's how it's heading. And there are three sections. There's three sections.
Okay. Yeah.
Eight cycles in the first, eight sections in the middle. Yeah. Three.
At the end. Okay. Yeah. And that's 14.
Okay. Yeah. Three plus three is six, the textbook is 14.
All right. So this is handwritten of books. Yeah. And a lot of other books, actually, how they were structured.
The book is chapters C4 through C12, so he has eight cycles.
And the first talk, the first part is memory prediction rendering. So this is sort of like, so the recent cycle, this cycle,
sort of like sets the structure of the book up is because what I'm going to do in cycles four through
12 is talk about neuroscience and now physics, the physics of neuroscience at all scales, starting from
the smallest scale to the largest scale. So the first one is the smallest scale. So this is about memory
prediction rendering. It's talking about how phase wave variations, um, and, uh, basically how phase wave
variations and neurons are creating the, um, representation of reality. Yeah.
I was talking about sensor transmitters, sensor transmitters. Yeah.
Arrays of sensor transmitters that, um, are, um, they're detecting coincidences and they're, uh, passing
along a representation, a wave representation to, um, another set of sensor transmitters. And the information
that is, um, similar or oscillated at the same frequency binds together. There's another concept in
science called, called Hebeen learning, which is the concept is the overly simplistic way to express
this concept is that neurons that fire together wire together. You don't have to fire apart,
wire to get apart. But what's really interesting is that concept is about neurons, but it also applies
to the physics of oscillations at all scales of the universe. So oscillations that oscillate at the same
frequency merge. Like this is, the table is, yeah, yeah, oscillations that, um, different frequency, uh, they
separate. Yeah. So that's, it's weird because we're talking about mathematics and oscillations, but then you
say, well, that actually correlates, abstractly correlates with the, the concept of neurons
to fire together, wire together, neurons to fire apart, wire apart, because that provides a mathematical
framework for why that, for a mathematical analogy. Okay. But it actually, um, is connected to, um,
physics of oscillations. That's part of it. So physics of oscillations are involved in memory formation
at a synaptic scale at the, in the dendritic, uh, at the dendritic, uh, at the dendritic scale.
Okay. And, uh, and basically inside the cell, the, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the dendrite
structure of the reception. Remember I was telling you that there's, um, if you want to have a mechanical
wave, uh, uh, sensor, or reception, that requires something at a higher level of the same sense.
So this here talks about spaces and other mechanisms of six groups of claustrophages.
Okay. Um, it also talks about, you know, how stuff, you know, the amplitude mechanism is about how
the sense gets passed. This right here is a little bit disorganized, like this is, this is a high
level, this is a high level session, which needs to be on a later chapter. Like this is, this is a section
I'm talking about different brain areas that I want to, want to cover. Um, and these are references
to notes that I've written down. So this, again, is going to specifically outline. You can see like
this one line thing. Right. But if you go over here to, um, uh, if you go to the, uh, the github,
which is, this is, this is one way to ask the github is, um, if you would go and you would search
for what I've said about the, the, um, the hypothalamus for example, or the thalamus. The
thalamus is like a key, the hypothalamus, sorry, the hippocampus, enterinocortex loop, the thalamus,
and, um, these are, these are really key topics. Okay. So, but if you search to notes, you, you, um,
they have to come later. But anyway, they have to come later. So that's slightly on board at the
moment. Okay. But they're just there as they're holding. Like they will be working. In a different
section. In a different section. Oh. Yeah. Like later on. So. So this one, um, the C-score is,
yeah, this is still, this is still really talking about, um, small stuff, but it's reconnecting it
with bigger picture stuff. Memory, um, memory is going to be a little bit more about what the dendrite
is going to show me. Um, but it's still memory. Um, you know, the, the neural address is like,
it's this concept that, um, you know, uh, when you try to measure where an idea is, it doesn't seem to
be in the same place at the same time. It seems to be like, it seems like if there's a neural pattern
that represents an idea, sometimes the neural correlations of that might be in one section
of the brain. And sometimes that idea might be measured somewhere else. Okay. It seems to drift,
you think that moves around. Okay. Well, the neural drift is, um,
the idea that I'm looking for is that you have many areas of the brain that are representing
the same information in different ways. They're representing a different version of the same
information. So for, so, so you might have an area of the brain that is more, um, is a lot,
is a lot more about the study of texture. And so, and a lot more of the brain is a lot more about the
study of color. And, but both areas might look, so you have texture and color, you might have a lot of
uh, cross representation of patterns that, that are, um, doing representations of things that have color
and texture in both areas. But the area that is leaning towards texture is representing the mug differently
than the area that's leaning towards color. Even though they're both representing the same information at
level, um, at higher level. You might remember one more than the other or like, uh, what do you
think you mean more of one of the other? So it's like you, you might like one day you might look at
your mug and you might focus on the color and another day you might look at your mug and you might focus
on the texture. Okay. How it feels. Right. And, um, so you have areas of the brain like the
somatosensory cortex that is a lot more connected to your, your taste and your touch and
that receives a lot more of that kind of sensory information before it receives visual information.
Okay. And so the representations in that area are going to be a lot more tactile.
Right. So more immediate. Because that's the traffic they get, they're used to getting. Okay.
Um, but you can have the same information is basically represent, represented in multiple areas.
And this is sort of like a, this is sort of like a holography, sort of like an idea that's similar
to holography where you can have the same information represented in different areas.
But, um, but the information is, it's not holographic. It's not the same information. It's,
it's represented, um, differently in each of the areas. So that allows you to basically, um,
basically an information pattern can be passed. So that, so, so these representations sort of like,
say, like piano keys. Right. And when you have, when you have a cup, a cup is like a song.
Mm-hmm. And so you have the, the, the sound of the cup. You have the appearance of the cup.
And this can play in different areas of the brain. And that's what the neuroscientists are seeing.
Okay. But basically we should have a representation of, um, uh, sensory experience or an idea
that is virtual because it doesn't have a fixed location. Like it could be represented by any part
of your brain. Just like how the tongue strip can, the tongue strip can enable someone's tongue to learn
to see. It's just that, um, representations of visual information can be passed to any brain area and any
brain area can learn to see because it's, it's just, it's that, um, the information content is separate from
the general learning algorithm of the brain. So the information content of the cup could be represented
in any of your, in any of your brain areas. And that allows, so basically in the brain you have traveling,
traveling waves that intersect with, um, uh, the, with the phase arrays that are sitting there. So you
have phase arrays that are sitting there and then your senses are passing traveling waves, traveling waves
through the phase array systems. And then so the information in your brain is virtual in the sense
it doesn't have a fixed place. It's places, the place of where the information is in your brain is
just temporary, um, virtual fans. So that, so, so now we're moving on up towards basically just
describing how, um, let's see what's in session five, just describing sensory processing. This is
basically what I partially began to describe to is how, um, so we talked about like, you know,
this first section was talking about basically like information theory and information theory and
how oscillation, information theory and oscillations and basic like, you know, this can apply to like
quantum level information. But basically, you know, how oscillations that are at the same frequency are
sort of able to merge together and how that connects to the neurobiology concept of, um, pattern
detection. And the information theory of the brain is the idea that, um, you're making phase arrays
instinctively. Um, but anyway, that's, so that's the first chapter. And then the second chapter
go, dives into the sensory processing, um, which is a high-level process and then how we communicate
that sensory processing. And I think that there's a little bit, like, a little bit about the flow of
information in the brain, maybe. Um, so it's a little bit about the flow of information.
So we can actually, I can touch on like flow of information through different parts of the brain.
And that's the sort of like still beginning stuff. And it's sort of built up into, um,
now I'm talking about like, and like, um, engrams. Engrams is like, um, so I talked about
neural drift. But the idea is that an engram is like a unit of information, a unit of information,
a phase pattern in your brain that represents like this chesty. And that would be an engram,
because it represents, um, as something in terms of your brain activity. This is an engram of this.
Or a memory. Or a memory. Or a memory, yeah. Oh, but what's the difference? When a memory,
when you're talking about a memory, is that like a cluster of these? Like a singular event? So let's
say that we're taking the whole scene, the whole scene, the whole test term right here. The idea is
that, um, everything you can identify is a body of oscillations. And the body of oscillations
that makes up this notebook is much bigger than the body of oscillations that makes up this cup. And,
um, but it's all sort of like, um, the body of oscillations that makes up this room is,
is literally, like, in a physical sense, it's bigger. Right? But it's not necessarily more complex.
Like, it may be a lot less data to the room. So the representation of the laptop can be bigger
than the room, in a sense. And the reason that's true is that the representation of your hand
in the brain, like it's been physically mapped out, like the homunculus is part of the brain where,
uh, they found it correlates to the human body. Like which area, like you're talking about,
point to your head, or your nose, or your mouth. And there's a little map of the human body inside
the brain that, that scientists have identified, where, uh, basically of areas that correspond to
your body. But the hands are huge. The hands are huge because the amount of, but your arms are
really small, for example. And that's because the amount of, of, um, brain activity that's devoted to
your hand is huge. Mm-hmm. So the amount of brain activity that's devoted to a laptop is much bigger
than it's devoted to a room, which is very, really boring. Right. Any interactivity, like,
the laptop is different. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. All right. So, so in a sense,
the laptop is much larger than the room in terms of how much of your brain activity is consumed by it,
when you're looking at it. Right. Right. So, just think about the part of the laptop,
but then it will take up as much. Right. Okay. You get the folks to have just one document.
The difference of age. Yeah. Yeah. Okay.
So, object recognition. Yeah. So, this is basically the beginning of features from, like, a very
level. Obvious recognition is how we distinguish, how we, how we parse one object from another. Mm-hmm.
And also drive that, drive to say, how a computer does that. Okay. Like, I think there's a bunch of,
like, if you just take this on a camera, right? A camera is, imagine you, because we're talking about
the phone screen. If you just took the, the electrodes and just made one electrode fire for each,
how would the computer take all this data and say, well, this is one object and that's,
that's, that's not an object. Like, if you're a computer, um, to, to your computer program,
you just have a bunch of dots and you have to say, well, how does this, what is this dot value?
Why is it, why is this number, uh, more meaningful than that number? Right. And, and so there is this
thing that they figured out in, um, in, uh, computer science that called, um, uh, three, it's called,
well, object segmentation, but I want to talk about 3D object segmentation, or actually 3D semantic
segmentation. So, you know, AI, they can, they can train AI on images to, to say, well, this is a,
this is a, this is a, this is a brook and this is a knight, and it can distinguish between two images.
But what we want to do with 3D semantic segmentation is say, okay, well, if this space was,
if, if we have a point field, a 3D point field, and all of the points that, all the points that
represent this, uh, piece, um, is a separate object, so that's object segmentation, that's separate from
the table, and all the points that represent this piece, this is a separate object, and this separate
object, all of these points that make up this object, um, is a, is a rook, it's a chess piece,
it's a rook, and so that segmentation is, um, semantic segmentation, objects to objects,
semantic segmentation is, is dividing the image into multiple pieces, and saying, well, this is,
you know, hot dog, this is not a hot dog, right? Semantic segmentation is saying, or 3D semantic
segmentation is doing, saying, well, this, all of these pixels are this object, and this is a chess piece,
and then I'm taking that concept and applying it to, well, how does the human being do that process?
How does the human being distinguish, and one experience I'm going to share is basically,
one time I took, um, salvia divinorum, and my ability to, to, it was legal at the time.
Wait, what?
Salvia divinorum was a legal substance that you could smell.
Oh, it's like, I don't, I don't know, is it like,
so it, it's like a plant, yeah, it's like, it's a plant, it's different because it's like,
extremely, it's like, super powerful, and super fast, so it lasts about 15 minutes, a lot less,
maybe 10 minutes, but you can have these wild experiences, and they're, they're unpredictable,
and they're not consistent, but one of the experiences that I had, um, that I only had once,
was I wasn't able to, I wasn't able to distinguish the, I'd had, I lost my object segmentation,
which means I lost the ability to tell the difference between the table and the desk,
between my hand and the desk, between, it was just a bunch of points,
and I couldn't tell the difference between one thing and the next,
and so I, I had this alternate experience of reality, where I couldn't tell what was the floor,
and what was the, what was the field, and that's really hard to understand,
to communicate, but I had that experience, and we, we, we, our brains learn to make those
decisions, but we're not born with it, like, we're, human beings are doing, like,
math, and, um,
so, so that's where this, that's where this chapter starts to talk,
so, so there's a little bit, so there's, so what's happening here is the notes right here
are not, sort of, sort of, like, much older than the, the outline, so the outline right here is
closer to what's going on, the current cell, and the notes above the east section are slightly
to the east section, so the outline is much more accurate, because that's the stuff,
and if you click on this, it's gonna actually take you to a section where, um, down here,
where, like, this is where the content is supposed to go, like, down here,
like, down here, and you click on it one sec, and then you click on it and do the back,
and then you click on it, you can hit that, and we can hit it up here,
and you can grab it and grab it.
The three of your the points at 740 foot.
It took a long time, we didn't come back.
Wow!
I didn't get this out.
I mean, there's a lot of things you do, like, when we did a bunch of it.
So, and it took a long time.
Yeah, but, yeah.
But now you get to navigate more, like, probably.
Okay, so, we're not going to get through the whole thing right now, but we've got started.
And so, I'm just going to ask for my assistance what you imagine would be helpful.
Because, like, what is the content of it, which I'm, like, more than happy to learn about, and, like, even reading, but I'm also, like, how can I help you do it?
So, one of the main things that I've, that I need to do, really, is just to use that, remember when I did Sci-Summary, and I made the summaries, the keynotes, the summary and the keypoints.
Okay.
And then I've copied them to the document, and then I, and then, literally, I'm taking these really long notes, I'm saving them as a PDF to the computer, I'm uploading them to, and there's hundreds to go through.
Okay.
There's hundreds to go through. There's, like, maybe 600 to go through.
Okay.
And so, that's, like, a major task of just, like, copying the notes, putting them into Sci-Summary, getting the summary, getting somebody out of it, putting it back into a document.
Oh, okay. So, you have to kind of, like, apply it into what? Sci-Summary? What is Sci-Summary?
Um, Sci-Summary is the, uh, the AI tool.
Okay. So, you're trying to do all the notes that have been transcribed, audio, and text.
And text.
Yeah. So, I'm going to do all the audio first, and then I'm going to do text afterwards.
So, you're still converting all the content you have of audios and text, converted audio to text, which you have some of, but not all of.
Right.
Right now. So, you're still in the process of pulling the audio files through the text, and then, and then taking the summary and putting it into a PDF, and taking the PDF, and putting it into...
The workflow is a little bit different.
But, um, let's go over to the Sci-Summary.
So, basically, um, that's the Sci-Summary, and then go to the, uh, sheet.
Do you have, like, a layout of, like, versions, like, one, two, and, like, do you have an order of operations that you, you do for these, or is it always kind of dependent on what it is?
I'm keeping track of it right here with this list.
Yeah.
Um, and then, like, you can organize it by, like, by length, for example.
And, um, so this is, so the longest class, so this is, this was a six-hour long class.
This is a five-hour long audio.
This is a four-hour long.
And then, if you go all the way down here, six, seven-hour long stuff.
All the way down to 30 minutes, uh, 20-12 minutes, uh, and then, and you can see it gets shorter and shorter.
So, um, I, and then, after all these done, so these are all the files, and so what I have done before, um, is also sort of marked.
So this just tells me I made, I've done, the audio, three of the ones I've, like, checked the audio and it's good, it's good to share it.
Um, two of the ones I've made the sheet, I've made the document, um, and, uh, so you make the sheet from the audio.
So the audio, I get the transcription, um, uh, I'm using the Whisper Jack, after going to the Whisper.
This is a really great tool in the screen.
You're gonna take any audio and you can get a transcription file, like, three of the times.
I actually, uh, did this a hard way before.
I was down, I, I, I had a subscription in Google Colab, and I, I ran the AI program myself.
And then they turned it into something that, and this is so you just, you just, um, place your audio file in there.
Okay.
They created a graphical UI, so.
Wow.
Yeah.
So, yeah, who's typing, what's that?
It gives you the, it gives you the text here.
You gotta use, like, a notepad tool to, like, um, cause it's all, like, jumbled up, it's like, it doesn't, it doesn't know the difference between one line and the next line.
Okay.
So, I use a notepad tool to, like, um, but I've done all the transcription stuff.
Okay.
So, we don't have to do any transcription stuff.
Okay.
So, this, if you want, I can link later, but, we don't need this tool right now because everything's transcribed.
The only thing I need to do is to take the transcribed stuff.
The transcribed stuff is all, there's all sheets, right?
So, it's all Excel sheets.
So, I find the sheet that corresponds to the number.
Like, for example, like, B0313.
And the first thing I want to, I've already checked to see if it's already been done.
So, this is, everything in the status is correct.
So, basically, um, finding the Excel sheet and mark off the Excel sheet.
I mean, define the sequence as a B0313 doc.
I believe there is.
I think there's a doc and a sheet for each of these.
But at least there should be a sheet for each of these.
And in which there's basically, I'm copying the content of the sheet into a doc.
And then I'm using the doc to say PDF.
And then I'm using the PDF, upload it to SciSummary.
Okay.
And so, as you can see, this is just four steps of one process.
Okay.
So, it should already be a sheet that I copy into a doc, that I save it as a PDF,
and then I upload it into SciSummary.
This means that I self-loaded into SciSummary, but I haven't copied it yet into the doc.
Is SciSummary a, like, it's your own, yeah, yours?
An account.
Your account, okay.
It's an account, but...
And then you have it all there, okay.
Yeah.
And the PDF will have the same numerical label from the doc.
Yeah.
Okay.
So, the idea is, um...
Are they in the doc or are they in the doc?
Oh, um, they just, if you, like, for example, they just come up like, like this, and then you can, like, copy the text.
Okay.
So, you can actually...
Okay.
So, you can just...
You could download a PDF.
Okay.
But you are generally copying the text.
Where are you putting this document?
Putting it back in the document.
Back in which document?
The...
The...
Summary.
The Google Docs document.
The Google Docs document.
The blue one.
The blue one.
You're putting it back in there?
So, I'm putting the summary back in there.
Okay.
Because I made...
I made it so that I could create a PDF so that I could send it into Sci-Hub.
And then I'm putting it back in the Google Docs document.
And then, its final destination is the GitHub.
So, the GitHub document for B0.3.1.3.
So, when I brought, when I brought the second computer out, I thought, well, maybe we could
be interested to help.
We could both basically just...
You could work on one computer and I could work on another computer.
We could both basically do the same thing.
Which is going through the process of...
You can write it down.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, okay.
So, one is the audio.
And then two is the sheet.
Yeah.
So, first is the...
Like, identify the name of the file on the sheet.
Basically, the audio is no transcription sheet.
So, this is the list.
So, I didn't...
So, find the list of the GitHub audio notes description.
Identify the...
The audio by title.
Which is...
By its number.
Which is like, for example, B0313.
And then, find the sheet that corresponds to it.
There should be a sheet that corresponds to it.
I doubt that any of these are missing a sheet.
Yeah.
Create a document.
Create a PDF from the document.
Upload it to Sci-Hub.
And then, download the...
Summary and the Keynote.
And the Keypoint.
Summary and the Keypoint.
And then, paste the Summary and Keypoint into...
The GitHub.
Oh, but you also put it back into the doc?
Well, yeah.
I mean, it's not essential that it goes into the doc.
It's basically like...
I'm just getting it ready to go into the GitHub.
Okay.
The doc is usually a little bit easier to read.
Okay.
And, that's what I've been doing.
So, the idea is that the Summary and the Keypoint
are going to show before the audio transcription.
Okay.
So, when someone who's not me looks at the database online,
they can read the Keypoint in the Summary first,
and then read the audio transcription.
Okay.
And then, I want to link the audio transcription in the doc
so they can listen to the audio while they're reading the transcription.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
That'll be...
Do you want to do that now, or that doesn't make sense to you?
So, like, link the...
You can't do that until it's all completed.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, I mean, what I can show you is basically...
Um...
The recording stuff is, um...
It's just...
I'm just copying a link to the recording.
So, I don't have to download anything.
But, basically...
Um...
Basically, in this program, you can just, like...
You know, like, right-click, copy links,
and then share it with...
Share it with, like...
Right here, you see?
I can create a public link.
Mm-hmm.
Copy it,
and then paste it in...
Oh, okay.
So, that's, like...
That's, like, one...
That's no problem.
Yeah, that's super easy.
So, that's easy.
That's just an...
So, once it's in GitHub, you've got your...
Keypoint Summary.
You've got...
Your Summary and Keypoint from...
Finet.
And then you've got...
Your audio transcriptions...
From the docs.
What happens to that?
Does it stay in GitHub?
What is the stuff with that?
Like, does it go into the...
Will it go into GitHub?
Yeah.
So, eventually...
The reason it's going into GitHub...
Is, one, so I can...
So I can share all my ideas with everybody.
Okay.
But, two...
Um...
Do you want everyone to have access
to all your ideas before...
To my notes?
To your notes?
Mm-hmm.
Before you're gonna publish anything?
Is it good?
Or...
Well, because the GitHub is part of the...
What comes after the book.
Oh.
Okay.
I'm creating a big public...
Big public?
Institute of Science.
Okay.
For the study of artificial psychology.
Investing in your online library.
It's gonna stay in GitHub as a referrable resource with a conventional...
Mm-hmm.
And then it will...
But I'm gonna pull from that...
To put the stuff from...
That's in the GitHub.
Pull from that...
And fill it into the table of contents that I showed you.
Based on what it is?
Based on what it is.
Okay.
And you'll know what it is based on...
The summary.
Summary.
The summary is...
Tells what the content is.
And then we associate the content that's in the summary...
Yeah.
With...
With the content that's in the table of contents.
Okay.
And so that helps to get all the content that is...
Basically...
This...
The summary of the book...
Is a map to all the content that's in the notes.
And so I pull the content from the notes...
Into the book.
But specifically, it's limited to 700p.
That's the size of it.
To be published.
To be published.
From the content that's...
That is on the GitHub.
So the content from the GitHub...
Who...
What do you mean it'll pull?
Like...
Well we...
Well we...
Basically we pull the content that's on the GitHub.
Yeah.
And put it into the book.
That's relevant.
The stuff that's relevant.
Yeah.
To your art.
Like the way you've structured it.
Okay.
So you've already structured it.
Making sure...
You're trying to just make sure...
In a way...
It's structured at a high level.
Uh huh.
But...
It needs to be structured at a low level.
Oh, high level means...
It's structured at like...
So I have a table of contents that covers the whole book.
Uh huh.
Um...
Like the titles.
Yeah.
But the low level is like the paragraphs.
Okay.
And the paragraphs are in...
The content that's on the GitHub.
Okay.
So I just have to associate the paragraphs with the titles.
Okay.
And that's the work.
Okay.
That's the work of the book.
And that's the work I need help with.
Okay.
Taking all these paragraphs...
And putting them in the right places.
Right places.
Okay.
That's all we're doing.
Okay.
And then the book's done.
Two and a half years.
Beth, good job.
Uh huh.
Yeah.
You need help doing some technical stuff that has to do with this process.
Uh huh.
Because there's so much of it to like get to this point.
Uh huh.
And so if you teach me how to use this from here.
Uh huh.
Alongside yours.
And make sure that I'm doing it correctly.
Yeah.
I can help with that.
Cool.
You know, like limited capacity again.
Yeah.
Not about to be like six hours in.
But, definitely dedicate a couple of hours during there.
Yeah.
Um, towards that.
And then also...
So that's the number one step.
Okay.
Is this one that you can take other steps?
You're going to be taking other steps from other undertaking?
Um.
I feel like that's 90% of the remaining work.
Remaining work.
Okay.
After that, it's about just editing the book.
And getting the first draft completed.
And then doing another draft.
And then doing another draft.
Okay.
And then doing another draft.
There's a little bit.
There's a little bit that can be done, like, in terms of dialogue.
Like, if you're not...
If you don't feel like you're...
Um...
Like, if you have questions and stuff.
Yeah.
About a certain section.
Like, what goes here.
Like, I can be there to just answer.
Okay.
Thanks.
Okay.
Okay.
Thank you.
