=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: Sequence of mental images to programming sequences of 3D events
First recorded: 2021-08-09T02:57:03.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/6ebb7534-629c-4ff2-941e-97ddb8502a98
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Making short-term memories. So earlier, before I decided to walk over to the grocery store, what I found out was that I was at a loss to why I didn't bring my bike.
But earlier, I remember back, I'm having a memory, before this walk, because I'm on the walk right now, the memory was before when I was at the office thinking about the walk.
I imagined myself taking the path that would lead me to walking from my office to the grocery store, and then getting a bike on the way back, and riding the bike on the way back.
So I imagined the path, and I saw images that represented, to me, myself doing a walk along this path this way, and then an image of a bike.
Actually, more like a cartoon of a bike, just a really simple representation of a bike that was associated with memories of being on the way back.
So there was a sequence that played out, a sequence of images and concepts, or concepts that were with sparse image representation.
So like most of the images that I see, are what my eyes are seeing as I take steps down this path in real space, in meat space, in human space.
So I'm walking down a path out of the street, and my mind's working very hard to create a sort of consistent representation of the physical geometry and textures and materials of reality of the real space
that I am walking through at this particular moment.
And, yeah, so I remember, so what I wanted to turn the recording on for was the fact that when I thought about,
when I visualized myself taking the walking path there and the bike path back, and I actually surprised myself.
So why am I not taking the bike? Because I've got this helmet, this bike helmet, and then I remembered the memory.
And what I'm saying is, like, by imagining that I took the, this is a really tiny memory.
I barely remember it. By imagining that I was going to walk there and take the bike back, take a bike back.
I mean, that was into, like, why would I do that?
Well, I actually do know that there are reasons that would support that sort of strategy, such as the fact that that bike rack down by the grocery store is often just, like, full.
Which I'm actually going to look at, because it is a Sunday, and I'm curious if, at a Sunday at this hour, if it's likely to be full or unlikely to be full.
Like, maybe it's just, like, I'm sort of interested to, like, learn if there is a sort of temporal pattern to, a detectable, predictable temporal pattern.
See, what's interesting to how full the bikes get at certain times of the day, on certain days of the week, and, like, Sunday afternoon.
Like, it could be that, you know, like, my suspicion is that at certain hours of the day, people don't want to ride bikes.
And at certain hours of the day, everybody wants a bike.
And so, yeah, like, when people want to be out and socializing, sometimes I can't find an electric bike anywhere.
I think that maybe it's just the case that people, during social hour, they want to have these bicycles, right?
You know what's weird is I feel like, I feel like I want to be very strict.
I want to be, like, I'm really, like, trying to win with this whole dieting thing, right?
So, I'm trying to be really strict about only, like, only doing the 1,800 calories.
That's four of these ThinkBars.
And, what's it called?
It's four of the protein drinks.
And between the two of them, that is, like, a really hardcore just 1,800 calories.
That's really hardcore.
And so, I'm about to go back to the grocery store.
I was, I've been thinking for a few days about, I've been thinking for, on a few different occasions, not for a few days.
On a few different occasions in the past few days, I've been thinking about purchasing a particular item at a particular store.
I've been thinking about that because it could be useful in the sense, in the case of, like, well, what if I'm just trying to get to sleep?
Maybe this particular item would work.
But, realistically, this item is, like, it's an item that tastes good, it changes your brainwave state.
It's more of, like, what I'm kind of, like, I don't know.
I think that, like, I like the, I'm thinking, you know, that if you just have the right amount of brain cell killing alcohol,
that you are, you're going to challenge your mind to sort of create more robust representations.
Um, and so, that's why people have, I think, very creative, um, ideas after a drink, right?
It's feeling good, and I think that what helps also is, um, the audio.
I think that audio is a big part of it.
So, I think what I need, what I want to do this evening is just really, um, like, turn on.
I'm going to get the headphones to work, and I'm going to just really, like, listen to, uh, entrainment while I'm, you know, sitting back.
So, let's pause it.
So, um, my thinking is that I, what I saw with, uh, with Vee was that, uh, she got really involved with Clubhouse.
She got really popular.
A lot of people were talking to her.
It was really amazing because to see what turned out to be, um, a situation where, uh, she, she definitely had this amazing, like, growth in her, in the happiness that was sort of, like, embedded in videos.
Like, there was definitely, like, this huge, like, uplift.
And so, I'm starting to think that this, like, that may have come from emotional, like, emotionally rewarding voice dialogues with lots of people in which she was, um, having, experiencing social success and, and gaining traction and making valuable connections with lots of people.
Um, that is going to, like, cause a lot of brain activity, a lot of endorphins.
It really feels good to make new connections with amazing people.
Okay?
And, um, so, and then, like, okay, so, what I want to do is sort of, like, collect all the, sort of, details for your website.
And then, like, disappear for a month.
And, like, reappear and it's just, like, completed.
That's it.
It's done.
Right?
Right?
That's how, that's how it could be.
Like, we have to collect the details of what 3D models go in it.
What the resolution is.
You know, I, I guess it gets more complicated when you're using, like, animated GLTFs.
I think, yeah, I think we gotta, I think that, yeah.
See, okay, so, let's go back to, like, the performance of your GLTF, right?
Can you make your GLTF perform it?
And, in hindsight, Don McCurdy's tool, uh, might be really useful.
So, one of the things I really want to do, uh, besides knocking back a drink, is to kind of, like, think, uh, to kind of, I want to try to dive into the AR cursors that are on, sort of, like, on my computer right now.
That were on, um, glitch.
I want to try to use those.
I hope they work.
If not, I want to try to get AR cursor, uh, other AR cursor working.
Um, and then, uh, so, I don't know if I got this on recording, but my, I'm thinking again about, you know, basically my next previous buttons can iterate through events, right?
Um, and that's what they're actually doing.
They're events that could look like anything or be anything.
So, that could be, like, each event could be, like, they're basically, yeah.
So, what I'm talking about is, like, I want something to, like, you press play, and the events will play, like, um...
Um, yeah, I'm just trying to find it.
I'm looking for a whiskey.
Okay, I'll be back.
You're okay.
The recording is still going.
Um, yeah, I'm noticing that the bicycles over here are late on Sunday.
There's no electric ones.
So, um, yeah, I'm not sure what the pattern is right now, because maybe it has to do...
Like, I'm really curious if I went over to, uh, certain areas on the bike right now, if I'd find that the bike racks are full,
because they're, like, waiting for the rush on Monday morning or something, and they, maybe they, like,
I wonder if they're moving the bike...
They, obviously, they must be moving the bikes.
When you start to get too many bikes in one area, what are you going to do?
Uh, let's in the vehicle, let's in the car, put some bikes in, in, uh, in the truck and deliver them to another location.
I wonder if they do that.
You know?
Or maybe, like, I, yeah.
They sort of, like, manipulate the population.
Because there is an app that says you can report a full bike rack.
And, um, you know, I guess over time, the data is going to allow them to, like, put more bike racks where people want to go.
They can watch the maps.
So what was I going to say?
I was going to say, okay, going back to the design.
Um, so I realized, the design of my website.
So I realized that, um, my thing basically triggers events when you click next or previous.
And it replaces the event that's being triggered with the next event in a sequence as denoted by, uh, an array.
But, um, what I'm saying is, like, what if I want the thing that's going to trigger the event to be, like, the, um, moment in time that a, um, uh, that the, it's, it's almost like an animation timeline.
But it's almost like a, uh, a song.
So it's like, okay, at a certain moment in the song, I'm going to have an event that's not related to the song at all.
A, basically, a 3D event happened.
Okay?
And the reason it should be like this, right?
Where what's causing that 3D event to happen at a certain moment in the song.
Because this would mean that if you keep, like, flipping through a certain 3D moment in the song.
Like, if you go, like, okay, so something happens, and then you just click, like, go back one second.
It's going to replay that 3D animation for you.
So it's going to give you, basically, like, a timeline that you can control, like, a music player for the 3D animation.
So you can start and stop them wherever, reverse them to any point.
And, you could, if you scrub back and forth, like, the position.
Oh, man, that's even cooler.
So the idea is that if you, so that if the position of the thing is attached, like, what I'm saying is, like, so that when you scrub the audio back and forth,
if you had, if you had a simple animation where the block is moving from, like, see, here's what I'm saying.
It's like, okay, look, if the event is only triggered by a certain time being reached, then the whole animation completes itself.
And that means that the block moves from left to right.
But what I'm thinking is the ability to scrub through 3D animations.
And so that would mean that the animation itself has a scrubbable timeline.
And if you could sync the audio, visual, and the animation, audio, and the video, and the 3D animation together,
then you can, then you could create, like, yeah, you could have a, you could have, like, four-dimensional events.
But that is sort of what's happening in the Slimery app, I think,
is you have a sort of, like, timeline for, for controlling 3D events.
Like, you can sort of scrub back and forth through the Slimery app.
So I need to dive into that and, like, look at how it's done.
