=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: Valence Phases Human Oscillators Jesus vs Grandfather
First recorded: 2021-10-17T17:36:05.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/3f519e17-ab18-40fe-a4c8-5f7bf4a1b2ca
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Who's better, your grandfather or Jesus? When I was in kindergarten, I remember having, uh, doing comparison between, uh, my grandfather, who was this, I understood that he was a, um, a general, and I had this idea that relative to other people, he was, uh, he was significant because he had lots of, uh, awards.
He'd wear his awards on his uniform. I mean, he was the only guy that I knew who had a uniform. Like, imagine, like, the only one, the only person in your, in your entire, uh, world that you've seen with a uniform on.
So, at kindergarten, I thought, well, my, my grandfather must be really important.
And, and I also thought, well, Jesus must be really important because people are talking about Jesus.
But who's more important, my grandfather or Jesus?
And I was, uh, for context, I, I was raised to believe that Noah's Ark was a real event.
And, um, but yeah, so I, so I didn't know who was greater, my grandfather or Jesus, and I thought, well, maybe I'll combine the two.
And I'll be like both.
I'll be like my grandfather, but I'll also be like Jesus.
That's what I, that's what I, that's what I, that's what I remember thinking.
Of course, later on, I discovered that not everyone liked my grandfather.
Father, and not everyone likes, uh, generals, not everyone likes military, and not everyone likes Jesus.
Jesus had more haters.
And, uh, I, you know, even as a small child, I was, I was a little bit disillusioned with the, uh, public chatter, uh, around, uh, Jesus and the, and, and the Bible and what people were saying.
Like, just imagine, for a child, it's really easy to understand, um, this, uh, you know, as children, we would talk to each other, and, and one of the other children, his name was, uh, Ryan, uh, he said to me, uh, and I, I guess he got this from one of his friends or from his dad or something, but he said, uh, well, can, can God create a rock so heavy that he is unable to lift it?
Because, and, and then we would say, well, God can do anything, right?
So, can he do something that he can't undo?
And we would come up with, like, um, I guess, uh, these are the, these are the kinds of paradoxes that smart kindergarteners, um, tell each other when they're trying to, uh, figure things out, I guess.
Uh, we, I remember, uh, that was, that was sometime between, uh, kiddo, I was good, you know, I was great, actually.
But, unfortunately, I had an extremely, um, sheltered life.
I would say, unfortunately or fortunately, it could have got, like, you know, whether that's fortunate or not, is, uh, is, is, is, it's just a matter of, uh, it's, it's hard to say, you know, there's a lot of, a lot of, a lot of, less fortunate things.
And there are some more fortunate things.
So, maybe that's somewhere in the middle, I don't know.
Not, not too great, not too bad.
But I was indoctrinated in, in alternate, uh, experience of reality, and, that I literally believed in.
So, uh, about, uh, fifth or sixth, about sixth, about, about the time that I left the sixth grade and left that school.
So, and, um, I was, so, in the seventh grade, I, I started off in a public school.
So, I was in private school until sixth grade, and I believed Noah's Ark was literally a true event until about the sixth grade.
And then in seventh grade, um, I discovered, uh, that the rest of the world did not actually believe Noah's Ark was real.
And, um, and, uh, the controversy then was that actually, uh, evolution was real, and it was supposed to replace our stories of, uh, of creation, like Noah's Ark.
So, so, so, so no longer, so there was a time when, imagine, there's a time when, when everyone around you, uh, this is, this is my, my experience, everyone around you insists on talking about the origin of the world.
The, the reason that you want to talk about the origin of the world and how it was created in this huge story is because they want to emphasize over and over the fact that, uh, that the entire world was created by this authority figure.
And, uh, that's like all, you need to know that, you need to know that in this culture because that is the whole reason for why you, you owe the authority figure your, your obedience.
Because the authority figure of, of, of history that created the world, um, is now looking after you.
And it's just, it's just like, but you need, it's like, yeah, let's fill you up with a reason that's going to glue you to our way of doing things.
And, and ultimately, um, that, um, I mean, what, what, that, that results in a sort of, uh, uh, uh, group cohesion, right?
And, and, and, but interestingly, the, that group is, um, is like, they're like an oscillator that, that fills the pole of the oscillator of more secular society and resists it somehow.
Somehow they, they, they say, okay, we're not going to be absorbed by, by the general beliefs of general society.
We're going to have our own sort of, like, religious beliefs that are almost intentionally in conflict.
Like, hey, like, it's like, almost like, hey, no one really, just trying to say, no one really knows what happens in history.
We're all making guesses.
And, and, and, uh, so we're just going to go with this, this, uh, thread.
It's narrative of what we think happened, because, uh, you know, when you really argue with people, it's like, you cannot, and, and this was, this was a constant experience.
When you, when you really argue with people, it seems like you can't, uh, convince people to, to move their position.
Once someone starts defending a position, it seems like you can't get them to give it up, because they, becomes part of their identity.
Like, oh, I'm the guy who defends this argument, or defends that argument.
And then, and then that person gets stuck with that argument.
It's like, oh, shoot, the argument might continue in the future.
I better get defending, I better get to defending it.
And, um, and so you have almost like a role to play.
And, and, and, you know, I think of that as, as, as, uh, sort of, um, that, that's interesting how, you know, you might, I'm just thinking like, well,
what if there's different areas of the brain that are very, that are very specialized in processing certain kinds of patterns?
Um, but to the degree that they don't, uh, but to some degree they don't work together.
Like, like, they just don't mix.
Um, and maybe in some cases they could mix.
Maybe, uh, religious and, and secular people could mix.
But, um, in theory, but they, but something, something about, something, um, something has to change.
Um, so, you know, oftentimes, you know, we have, uh, at least the ability for the more, for the more mature people, the really, the much older people and, uh, who are part of these different, um, uh, different kinds, different kinds of, uh, oscillating groups.
Different kinds of, um, you know, groups of people that see themselves like, you know, I guess on a, on a really macro scale, it seems like the, uh, that particular version of the Christian community has sort of, like, lumped themselves in with Republicans.
And Republican conservatives and conservatives and, uh, some of them, you know, a good, a good significant portion, like, a really high proportion of, of Republicans came out and voted for, 73% came out and voted for, or, I'm sorry, what did I say, 73%, like, 73 million, something like that.
73 million Republicans, conservatives and libertarians all came out and voted for, for Donald Trump.
And, um, I don't know, my guess is, I don't, I don't know how that particular church that I grew up with responded, but my guess is that, uh, maybe, uh, most of them, you know, 85% of them voted for, for, for Donald Trump as well.
I, that's what I would guess.
Um, you know, but then there's always two,
you would agree with every, with every, with every U.S. president, they would say, you know, like, with Bill, with Bill Clinton, who was a Democrat, they, the, in, back in, uh, I think it was in 1995, uh, my, my friend, my friend Ryan, who was a friend at that point, he, he, he was saying, um, you know, that we, that we, uh, so that's the funny thing is I also grew up with, like, the same kids from, as my friends from about kindergarten to about the sixth grade.
Right. I just knew the same people. And so I kind of had the, these relationship attachments to all, all the, the kids that I was growing up with.
Um, and, um, um, I have no idea what their faces look like.
Um, but I have, like, now, but, but I have this, like, this, like, uh, these vague internal representations that, um, you know, Nick's hair was a certain way, Dave, David, uh, even though that doesn't make any sense, right?
That David's hair was a certain way. But, obviously, people couldn't change their hair. Um, and then I remember, uh, so there was Ryan, there was, um, Tyler, uh, there was, uh, there were lots of girls, Shalia, Danielle, but Shalia had a, had a sister, uh, who, I don't know, it's weird.
I'd like Shalia. What kind of name is that? I think her sister's name was Leah, which is, which is probably my memory being, uh, incorrect.
But, um, so, um, but I remember earlier on that, that, um, uh, that I was, I was, uh, disillusioned with, uh, with my religion.
Um, and, uh, but the one, the one thing that I did take away from it was the, um, the story that, that I connected between my grandfather and, and the world that I was growing up in, uh, and my grandfather was a Catholic, so, so I don't think he would have had the kinds of conflicts I was having, uh, but, so this is just my perspective.
But, um, the, the, the main, like, takeaway was, was this, uh, story in which, uh, the, the Bible story in which the, um, character's name was, like, Joshua or, or something.
And, um, um, he, the story, the story made it clear, uh, that, what you wanted to, to, to, that the most valuable thing, but, was wisdom.
The, the thing that you should seek the most is wisdom.
And, and by seeking wisdom, um, you are seeking the, the rock, uh, that, that is, like, that's like building your house.
It's not a rock.
Having a life in which your path is to seek wisdom.
And, um, sort of, like, and then, then, then, then for some reason, uh, Jesus was the best because he gave himself, right?
Which is, which is, um, which is like the idea of satori, you know, to, you know, there's various, uh, spiritual traditions in the world,
and the idea that you give yourself or sacrifice yourself to save others, ultimately, um, is, is the idea of satori, sacrifice.
And, and, and the state, and the stages of wisdom could be, like, you know, you know, versus, first, first, first stage is to know yourself, and then control yourself, and then give yourself.
And, and these are, um, I found it interesting that, you know, there's three stages, like, three stages of wisdom, kind of, and then there's, like, three stages of rhetoric that, that, you know, ethos, pathos, and logos that you can learn.
And so ethos is about your character and who you are, and then pathos is, um, is, is the stage of rhetoric in which you ask questions, so you're listening.
And then logos is the stage in which you're, in which you're talking, um, but, but you are, you're, you're talking as, as a combined oscillator.
The, the, the two people are in, in agreement now.
We have, in, in, we, we established that both people were of good character in the stage of ethos, that, that two or more people were in the stage of good character in ethos.
And that, that's sort of, like, um, sort of, uh, similar to a group oscillation, you know?
Like, when the whole group is oscillating because everyone has been verified and that they're a good person, and then we listen to, to the reason why we all belong together as a group.
And then we're able to collectively agree on the persuasive arguments as to, um, why our group should continue, why our collaboration should continue, why we should work together.
And, and it's thought that these three stages of rhetoric, discovered, discovered by, or, discovered by the ancient Greeks, or out, or, or defined by the ancient Greeks, they seem to define, like, every conversation that we have with people.
It's, it's always, like, okay, who are you, who am I, what do you want, what do I want, and then, do we work together or not?
Like, we figure out the common logic, are we working together, are we not working together?
Are we doing something together?
That's the logos stage.
And so, like, in every conversation we have, there's, it's, it's, I say, it's like the ancient Greeks discovered, um, ethos, pathos, and logos, because it seems to be embedded, uh, in our conversation socially, these three phases.
And, um, these three phases seem to oscillate.
And it's interesting because you can describe the human body as, as a fractal of oscillations, and, and our, even our communications are oscillations.
And, um, and, um, so, I wonder, yeah, so, I mean, yeah, and, and then, and, in addition, yeah, this is, that, this is, I'm going to argue that, uh, that the networking protocol, um, is, is oscillation phases.
Or rather, yeah, or rather, yeah, it's oscillation phases.
How, how the, how the, how the, the phase or voltage of the oscillation is changing, it's communicating that change, that phase change, through, uh, in an oscillatory manner to, to the rest of the oscillation.
So, it's like, so, it's like, um, a neuron's oscillator.
