=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: y0002 A missed opportunity in EEG
First recorded: 2022-10-25T05:26:47.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/304dd74d-ce86-4a95-af3d-7a8182e7a4e8
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
There was one particular argument with a neuroscientist that really frustrated me.
There was this, with EEG, there's a technology called source localization, EEG source localization, electroencephalogram.
So we're talking about putting a cap of electrodes on someone's head to measure voltage, to measure changes in voltage that are coming out of your skin.
So the argument is that you're getting fast temporal information, but you're not getting spatial information.
And you're getting information at the aggregate scale of one of the brain's dipoles, electric dipoles.
And there's only so many of those.
And so you can have, you can have, you know, 256 or 512 electrodes placed all over the skull,
but there's only, but there's only, there's only so many major sources of, of data for these sensors, electric dipoles.
But with EEG source localization, it's been shown that it can infer the source, the source of a signal.
And actually, I'm not exactly sure how it works, I should probably be interested to know.
But they, they compared the prediction of where the source of a signal was coming from with a, with a reading from a,
from an implanted sensor, DBS, deep brain stimulation sensor, which also has the ability to stimulate the brain.
It's a deep, it's a DBS machine, it stimulates, but also senses.
And they were able to show that source localization actually works and it's actually right.
And so I made the argument that we could use source localization to, to create a 3D model of where, of, of the brain's structure
and spatially plot where EEG signals were coming from.
Um, and the argument that I heard from, from, uh, the neuroscientist I was speaking to, Morgan, Morgan, uh, Huff,
was that, um, you're not, you can create a, you can create a 3D model from the EEG data,
from the source local, source localization data.
Um, and I said, and I said, and I said, I said, and then once we have this 3D model, we can, we can do, uh, um,
we can compare this data to what people are seeing.
Meaning that we can, we can make correlations between a person's behavior in the real world
and what they're seeing, what they're sensing, experiencing, hearing, uh, feeling
with what part of their brain is being activated.
And because we, because of source localization, you can get an idea of where a signal came from.
And then we could use deep learning to further deepen these, these correlations.
And he was very dismissive of the idea, uh, in a way that I, I, I believe he was really, like,
uh, really hard up against the idea.
And he said something to the effect that, um, there's no point in creating a 3D model
and then running deep learning on it because you're not getting, because all the information
from the EEG is in the original sensor data.
So you're not getting, so you, so you're not getting more data by, by putting it into
a 3D model or something, something, something to that effect.
And, and I can't like, that's a point that I can't, you know, technically you got the, that's,
that's technically not incorrect, right?
Because yeah, all the data that's in the 3D model is technically in the original sensor
data where just, it's, it's, um, it's a transformation of that data, but, but it doesn't, that's all
it's just a transformation.
And, but for that reason, he wouldn't hear anymore.
He's like, it just is not hearing it.
I think it's still a great idea.
And I, I agree, you know, we're, if we transform the data into, you know, a 3D model so that
we can see where the data is coming from, um, for the computer, I mean, that is, that is
a, the only, here's the, the only other thing is that, you know, the idea is to find it is
to find correlations, um, between the EEG sensor data and, uh, the external world.
And that sort of process is already what, what, um, what's done.
But, but, um, in any case, this was a, um, uh, it's not the experiment that I would do
today, but it's one that I, I just wanted to write down, um, as a missed opportunity,
I think.
I think, um, you know, definitely plotting out where brain activity is happening might,
um, make it easier to sort of just, um, you know, I think of, I think of, I think of, of,
of, um, what I imagine, and I don't, I don't know if it's true, but I imagine that, that the,
um, I imagine the surface of the brain is like the surface of a lake.
And when a spike happens, it's sending a ripple through the lake.
And somehow that ripple is spreading out, um, the way a, a ripple in a lake spreads out.
It's, it's, it's, it starts out small and then, and then with each, as it spreads in distance,
depending on its, its, uh, magnitude and depending on its, its, uh, frequency,
as it spreads in distance, it's either going to like have a high frequency and a low amplitude,
a low magnitude, high frequency and a low magnitude, or a high magnitude and a low frequency.
The spikes in particular, especially like sharp wave ripples are going to have a low magnitude.
And I should, I should, I should change that, change the way I'm saying this, because
in the, you know, at the scale of a brain wave, um, spikes will have, will travel a longer distance
or bursts, sorry, bursts will travel a longer distance, um, with a smaller amplitude, but a higher frequency.
So at the EEG scale, um, what's more interesting is the, is the sort of focusing on the inverse
relationship of, of amplitude and frequency. It's really the inverse relationship of magnitude
and frequency, but we're sort of focusing on the, the amplitude side of the magnitude.
And that's, that's, um, and so I'm just imagining that, um, no, I really, okay,
I'm going to pause this and really just sort of like, look at how source localization is done.
And yeah.
