=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: y0017 Cells Receptors Signals
First recorded: 2022-06-20T21:05:22.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/e3631a60-a2b5-497b-ba3e-99e193d22268
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Cellular oscillating tomography is a term I invented to describe how your hand or the cells in your body that are not neurons are participating in consciousness activity with your brain,
without a model of the self at the scale that exists between neurons, but still a sort of selfless consciousness that your cells can chemically have to become aware of information at the chemical and biological frequency range.
So that means, you know, chemicals, obviously, the exchange of chemical signals and RNA signals and protein-based signals and messages, not just signals, but messages, information-containing messages,
that the DNA is interacting with over time provides a sort of like lens into physically conscious tissue that's not necessarily self-aware tissue.
So it's like conscious without self-awareness.
So cellular oscillating tomography is an explanation for how your cells, with the receptors that they grow, can detect, they can be sensitive to other signals from other cells.
That may include, you know, that may include, you know, that may include, you know, the dispersion of chemicals or the dispersion of RNA.
And they can be sensitive because, like neurons, the receptors on cells can grow to become more sensitive or less sensitive to certain kinds of information.
The cells can recognize, mechanically speaking, and that the patterns that the cells can recognize patterns, mechanically speaking, and that the patterns that a cell receives will trigger behaviors from the cell that the cell has learned through the process of natural selection over billions of, billions of years.
So it is sort of like an unconscious intelligence happening at the cellular level where the thresholds set by the number of receptors can determine the types of receptors that have evolved,
can respond to the different types of messages that can respond to the different types of messages that a cell receives or the different types of messages that the environment sends to cells.
And then the cell can, you know, when you have multiple receptors receiving a signal that the cell has decided that it's going to be receptive to,
that it's going to know that it's going to know by building more receptors to, or certain types of receptors.
There are thresholds within the cell that can be activated if enough receptors have been triggered, triggering that memory, triggering that DNA-based learned reaction.
And all of this information can be decoded by a computer because it is information in the sense of information theory,
and that the information is separated by the frequency and duration, and types of signals.
So we have multiple different ways for cells to receive patterns, to consider via thresholds, the meaning of those patterns,
and to react through, via cellular mechanisms, via biological functions, to information.
So if you convert this data to a computer simulation, you could predict basically 100% what a cell is going to do if given certain information.
Maybe not 100% because there's still like the bizarre domain of reality is going to say,
well, even if you know how a cell is going to operate under ideal conditions,
it is possible that the actual physics involved in the cell, which are too numerous to inexpensively compute with the simulation,
the actual mechanics of the cell may defy your predictions as to what that cell is going to do when simulated.
Because the simulation, by necessity, is going to be a model that abstracts away some factor, some unknown factors.
So it's still going to be sort of like a best guess when it comes to treating cells.
It's still going to be a best guess situation.
But you can model to a degree and give yourself a likelihood of a positive outcome for each and every cell that you attempt to treat.
Which is great because that is a vast improvement over what medical technology is today.
If we could treat every individual cell and not be sure of the outcome, that is going to vastly improve medical treatments worldwide.
