=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: y0015 I summarize my book at Farmers market
First recorded: 2022-08-20T15:09:59.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/530fac23-8c5e-441a-be78-ba7d22002966
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Do you want me to finish that story?
Yeah, yeah. So, okay, where were we?
So, I was saying that Jack Launt was this neuroscientist in Berkeley.
He created this laboratory where he brought people in to sit in an MRI machine and they watched a movie and the machine made correlations between their blood flow activations in their brain and the movie they were watching.
So the machine could predict based on the blood flow activations what scene they were seeing in the movie.
It's like decoding your neural activity to figure out.
How accurate, like, in what way does the machine see, like, what does the machine actually predict of, like, um, this, like, the emotional resonance of, like, a love scene or, like, a comedy?
Like, how does it know what you're watching?
Um, it was really just, um, like, the machine was just matching the images from each frame of the movie to what your blood flow pattern is.
Oh, so it could predict where you were in the movie.
Yeah, so the machine had no idea of your emotions or anything.
It's just, like, matching pictures, matching pictures together.
And is someone coding that, like, this is, how is it?
I believe he...
I have a friend that's, like, she works at Google, like, on a Google research team.
Yeah.
And she's training robots how to play ping pong with humans.
Yeah.
Which is so cool.
Um, but it's, like, so much of it is just, like, do this, do that, do this, yes, no, yes, no.
And, like, so is that happening with...
With, with Galant's work?
No, that's, um, that's a different application of AI.
That is, that is AI.
Yeah.
So there's some similarities, right?
Mm-hmm.
So the, the conclusion of the story is that, um, it's broadly accepted that the brain is
making representations of reality inside the brain.
Yeah.
Like, we're, like, we have neural quotes.
So what we see, we're constructing it in our brain.
But where, inside the brain, is the, is the observer?
Where's the inner eye that's observing these, these models of reality?
Say, say, what's, what's the locus of consciousness?
Where is it all coming together?
But the thing is, the argument that I'm making is that, basically, every neuron is a sensor
and a transmitter.
Every cell has the dendrite, which is the sensing part of the neuron, and it has the exoterminal,
which is the transmission part of the neuron.
And so every neuron is sensing part of the picture and transmitting part of the picture.
And through the principles of oscillation, the physics of oscillation, the, all the different
pictures are bound together in a whole image.
And that is how human, the human brain makes the conscious mind.
And that's my book.
But it also, I go deep into, like, the neurophysics of, like, what's actually happening at the
physical level at the neuron, and how memories are formed via synaptic connections.
Wow.
And, and how they, they have, they have to scale up to, like, if a neuron is really tiny, right?
You'll, sometimes, some neurons are so, so small you can't see them with the naked eye.
Some neurons are really big, but, um, usually not in human brains.
Um, but, the question is, how does a memory go from something that tiny to something that
your whole brain is aware of?
Mm-hmm.
So you have to, so I figured out a path of, uh, the process for how neurons can scale up
their memories.
Wow.
And I have new theories of how, you know, memories are, how, there's, so long-term memory
is LTP, LTP, uh, long-term forgetting is LTD, and, um, they've had these ideas of what LTP
and LTP, LTD were for, I think, for over a century, but, uh, actually, at least since
9th, 1955.
Hey.
Maybe you want my numbers?
Yeah, absolutely.
Sorry, I have to do stuff, but, like, thank you for explaining.
That, you got the, that, you got the, that was the, that's the nutshell.
I'm just saying, there's more details.
Of course.
You're writing a book.
Yeah.
All right.
Okay, thank you, Ryan.
You were writing it?
Um, yeah, I'm doing good.
I have a question over there.
