=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: y0027 Self Aware Patterns Dominating other Patterns
First recorded: 2023-04-17T16:00:11.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/a348be15-06e1-4d7e-8445-871523ad7162
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Real quick, so, the idea that, um, basically, top-down control is, you know, I have this idea that I want to program, but the thing is, that idea, a thought, in itself is, like, a dominant phase-wave rhythm, information-structural properties, you know, they have a tempo, they have a rhythm, they have this volumetric pattern,
where, I mean, like, choosing, like, making a choice, like, hey, there's something I want to do, interrupts what I'm doing, to change what I'm doing, whatever that is, that is just one larger pattern, it's in the process, concept of the ricochet chamber, you know, the idea of, you know, I can be conscious or unconscious in my breath, when I'm unconscious phase-wave rhythm, and there's conscious, that means I'm taking the, the dominant phase-wave rhythm, binding,
to the same frequency, to the same frequency, it's creating a new functional connectivity, between the, about, like, the, um, the, the, the prefrontal cortex, and, and the, um, the area that manages, uh, breathing, hang on a second,
this is my breathing, it said, uh, when you become consciously aware of your breathing, several binary networks become functionally connected to facilitate the attention, monitoring, and regulation of your breath, some of these areas include prefrontal cortex,
the insular cortex, the insular cortex is involved in the processing of interoceptive information, such as the sensation of your breath, it is implicated in awareness, emotions, and attention, during conscious breathing, the insular cortex becomes more functionally connected with other brain regions involved in attention and sensory processing,
the prefrontal cortex, the prefrontal cortex, particularly the prefrontal cortex, particularly the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, is involved in the execution of functions, such as attention, working memory, and cognitive control, when you are consciously aware of your breathing, the PFC, um,
um, they exert top-down control over other brain regions, increasing functional connectivity with attention and sensory networks, the interior cingulate cortex, the ACC,
is involved in attention, cognitive control, and air detection during conscious breathing, ACC may help focus your attention on your breath, and modulate your awareness of breathing sensations, the parietal cortex, the parietal cortex, particularly posterior parietal cortex, plays a role in attention and processing sensory information, when you are aware of your breathing, functional connectivity between the parietal cortex and other related regions may increase,
primary and also primary or some slightly portion of wherever you are.
during conscious breathing. Functional connectivity between these areas, their attention-related
regions may be enhanced. Primary motor cortex and supplemental motor area, these areas are
responsible for controlling the muscles, involved in respiration. So when you focus on your breathing,
the functional connectivity between these motor areas and other attention-related regions may increase.
Overall, when you're conscious of your breathing, various brain regions involved in attention, interoception,
and motor control become functionally connected. This allows for increased awareness of your breath
and better control over your breathing, connected when I'm breathing.
But that basically helps me to finish my argument, which is that the brainwave rhythm of consciousness
is connecting to the parts of you that are focused on breathing. And it's binding together into a single
circuit, into a single flow of information. And that's how you become conscious of your breathing.
And when that's disconnected, when those areas of the brain are still connected, but it's not the dominant,
they're less connected, right? The connections between those areas are decreased, then your breathing is less conscious.
Because the increase in connectivity between those areas is creating the dominant phase wave rhythm.
The dominant phase wave rhythm is the increased signal activity, increased...
The dominant phase is the increased signal to the vibration of the brain.
The dominant phase wave hmm...
The dominant phase wave...
The dominant phase wave is the need to be silent.
