=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: y0029 Self Aware Networks Clubhouse
First recorded: 2023-04-18T20:49:36.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/2c690028-62b4-45a0-a2ae-f9976bdddc9f
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
There's this thing that led to the perceptron, which was the all-or-none potential of a neuron is just sort of like the basis of the all-or-none, all-or-none, all-or-none, action potential. But the potassium is, it encapsulates.
I'm going to be here a little bit, but the AD projection into the four dimensions, right?
Different generations. But the idea is that if you compare all these similarities, neural radiance, the original slices, basically, in my theory, which is called NAPOT, or Neural Array Projection Oscillation Thermography, means that the output of your neural arrays is in front of your neural arrays.
Those are your sensory input neurons, right? The gangly neurons. They're exposed to, you know, raw signals like light and heat and sound. And, you know, like, so the sound vibrations in your ear will cause these vibrations.
And then they create a signal that's passed to the next array, and the next array has to, of neurons, that has to take that information and make something, make, make, they have to, there has to be an image that, or a sound that they recognize, and they pass on to the next array.
So your brain, so your neurons are basically playing, like, telephone, where they receive a message, and then they pass a message.
But in order to, for, you know, your thalamus, for your hippocampus, and your core brain areas to process your external sensory information, the information from your external sensors, from the external world, has to pass through these relays, through different subsequent neurons.
And that's the best argument, I think, for why, what one neural array is passing through the next neural array is a sort of, like, recreation of the external synthesis, in terms of, in terms of the sensory neural pathways.
And, and, and, and, and, so, I mean, that's a bit of a simplification, but the idea is that your brain is receiving all of these inputs, and the neurons, just like, neurons in your brain, just like artificial neurons, are, are detecting coincidence patterns.
And they're modifying the, the, the, the structure, the structures that the neurons form, both the, long-term structures, the, you know, the synaptic formations, and the short-term structures, which is, which are the frequencies that your neurons are holding at each interval, which are modified by new activities.
So you, the neurons are constantly changing their frequency, there's lots of short-term, sort of, like, frequency structures to hold short-term information.
That's not, that's because, because cellular information takes a long time to change.
Your brain has to maintain states of information that are very short-term, as well.
So, Micah, you did speak a little bit about sodium-potassium channels.
I'm wondering if you, um, are looking at all about, um, at the modulation there.
I'm wondering if you're looking at all at astrocytes.
This is bait for Serena, in case she listens.
She, she, she, she's here for, I meant to refer now to astrocytes as the mini maestros, kind of, can, you know.
Uh, so yeah, so I'm, so I'm looking at it, like, every single part of the brain, from, from the microglia, to the astrocytes,
the illegal dendrocytes, to the, to the trisynapsis, uh, which is, you know, the trisynapsis, some people say it's 40% of the brain.
But the thing is, like, there are so many astrocytes that it could be 80, it could be 80% of the brain that are, that are involved with trisynapsis.
I, I don't know if it's 40% or 80% or 100%.
It's really, um, sort of a research area, I think, that people are sort of, like, discovering the importance of, of the, the, the role of astrocytes.
But I think that the essential arguments that, that I'm making in my book, like, they, like, I'm expanding, you know, we have, we had this, uh, Hodgkin and Huxley model,
and then there's the, there's this obscure model, which is not referenced anymore, called the solitone wave model.
Um, and I have a model of the neuron, which combines the solitone wave model with the Hodgkin and Huxley, but then it goes beyond it.
And yes, I'm including, like, um, signals from microglia and signals from T cells.
And I, so I have a theory of, of, like I mentioned, I have a theory of how neurons are communicating, which is called neural array projection oscillation tomography.
But I also have a theory of how regular cells are getting involved from T cells to blood cells to, um, to astroglia and microglia.
And that, that theory I call cellular oscillating tomography.
And then, but because basically it's not just about neurons, right?
Um, but there is a lot of brain sequence, there's a lot of information that is basically what your neurons are doing, um, is not unique to neurons at all.
Um, the same high level processes, it's like, it's like all your cells are fractals of the same core structure.
And the neurons are just versions of that core structure, but you have something like, like a T cell and a T cell has an enormous amount of intelligence and, um, it's an, it's an incredibly sophisticated thing.
And, and it, it's like a little, like it can grow arms and legs and it communicates with neurons to move to the site of an injury and it could, it can release chemicals to kill, uh, an infection, like, you know, a viral infection.
Like it is, it's, it's incredibly sophisticated and the idea that you have to sum up, like that you have to simplify a neuron into like a one or a zero.
Like after you understand the computational complexity of cells and all of the cool things that they can do, it is, it's, it's, it's the simplifications that have rose to dominance in human thought about how the brain works are, are laughable.
And they're funny and they're, they're worth laughing about and thinking about because the actual complexity of what our cells can do is just magnificent and amazing.
And, and, and really, uh, and really it's like, there's this book that, that I have to recommend that I am writing about this book, but it's, um, let's see, his, his author's name is John Leaf, L-I-E-F.
And he wrote this book, Cells, uh, The Secret Language of Cells.
I really have to recommend this book.
Secret Language of Cells, what biological conversations tell us about the brain and body connection, the future of medicine and life itself.
So this book is easy to read if you're not a doctor, because it, he just basically uses really good analogies, um, to explain what the cells are doing.
And they are, and, you know, like when he gets, when he gets the cancer, I mean, it is laughable.
They just turn into a TV show because the cancer behaves like the mafia.
The cancer behaves like a little, like a little, it's like, it's like a little fascist regimen, you know, like Vladimir, like it's a, it's basically a fractal of what Russia is right now.
But, you know, the cancer, the cancer is, is, watch out, hot button topics.
But I mean, it's like a little military, um, that is doing really bad things.
And they, like, they colonize and they, they infect the hosts, they infect their hosts and they take over, like, like, you know how, like, the, the fascist regimen, uh, wants to basically put a, put a puppet in charge of your country.
Like, basically they want to mess with your elections and put a puppet in charge of your country.
Like, that's basically what cancer does.
Um, cancer takes over nearby regions of the body and makes, makes your body work for it.
Um, so it is like this, it is like this insidious fascist invasion.
Uh, and it rallies militaries to fight against your white blood cells.
Like your white blood cells are like, that's your army.
I mean, but, but, but it, but it, but it, it's, it's, and it has military strategies.
It's just like, it's extremely, it's way more, cancer is way more complex than people might suspect.
Um, if they've only studied germ theory.
I mean, you know, it's just, I thought this was a great person.
I'm not sure if we should go for like, you know, for two hours or three hours, you know, cause we've done like, I think we've done like maybe, I think I started at six.
Um, let's see, there was a question, but he left.
So Afe had a question.
He wanted to know what, what is, uh, he wanted to know.
Oh, computational neuroscience.
I, I, his question was, um, you know, like I understand neuroscience, but what's computational?
I thought he asked what is computational, computational biology.
Oh, right, right, right.
Sorry.
That's, uh, yeah, I'm getting confused.
Wiesem is the computational neuroscience.
Um, yeah, he had asked about computational biology, but I think maybe he deleted the question because it was kind of explained, right?
You were talking about, you know, the actual counting and how the computation comes into play.
Oh, there, there's Wiesem.
I said computational neuroscience and Wiesem appeared.
Speak of, it's like, it's like the, speak of the devil, but when you, computational neuroscience summons the angel.
So, so I sent, I sent, I sent Wiesem an invite to speak.
So, yeah, so, you know, I mean, also the, the, the, the term systems neuroscience, where you can address the function of neural circuits of, and intact organisms.
So, as I was, I was, I was explaining, I don't know if Wiesem is going to come up or not, but as I was explaining, um, you know, there, there's, um, because Wiesem just got here.
I was wondering if we should end early so I can go get pizza, but I don't know, maybe I'll stay.
Well, maybe come back after your pizza date or on the weekends.
We're all nerds.
We have no weekend life.
I mean, Wiesem might.
Maybe I'll schedule another one tomorrow.
So let's go ahead and end and people can listen to the replay and then come back and powerful, uh, second one.
Okay, so, we'll just say goodbye.
Goodbye, everybody.
Follow the club.
And follow the club and, uh, join the next one.
And listen to the replays.
