=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: y0030 Ear Marks of a conscious system
First recorded: 2023-04-29T11:41:28.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/01df3ea3-5ac6-4115-8aab-547708e9998f
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Part of what makes information conscious is that it's temporally and spatially austin across the volumetric matrix or tensor field that is your brain.
And imagine that you have a sort of like live, imagine that your brain has the language model and you have the ability to do diffusion rendering.
Images and even short movies, like you can, like I feel like I am getting good at imagining topological transformations, really complex ones, I don't need to numbers, help me visualize math.
And this is, this is, you know, you know, you can imagine, imagine math is a series of shapes, right?
And imagine moving those shapes around to do calculations.
Imagine numbers, right?
The shapes represent numbers, you move them around and transform them and they represent new numbers.
Anyway, so this is an idea that, you know, hey, wait a second, we can link, um, the part of your brain that's good with language, math, and visualization.
And we're doing all of it live, you know, in a volumetric theater.
All the different representations are combined in the same arena.
Um, so, it's, um, it's, it's, it's multimodal, but more, but specifically, it's different from existing neural networks because it's a sort of live rendering.
The rendering is happening internally and the rendering represents to the, to the organism or to the computer system, its own representations, its own transformations of the, of the incoming, um, incoming signal data and the, the remembered or learned information.
And self, and self, self-generated.
So, yeah, so, I'm not saying that this is all that's required for consciousness, but that is, uh, part of one of the, it's one of the indicators of consciousness, detecting consciousness in a computer system, is that there is a, um, a sort of tensor field, uh, signals that are, in real time, uh,
being transmitted and being, uh, being transmitted and being read by the same system over space and time, over space and time.
And, um, it's being generated by itself and read to itself.
These are hallmarks or earmarks of what a, what a conscious system is.
It's a way to identify whether a system is operating consciously.
It has a live, or running, a live running time.
Yeah, and, and, so the signal, and, and the thing is, like, yeah, so the signals, um, signals are constantly reactive to the environment.
So they're running at a temporal spatial, the internal signals are constantly, so the, they're running at a temporal spatial rate that allows them to be, um, to react in real time to new and novel information surrounding the organism or, or system, or the system.
So, you have, um, you have, um, if you don't have this, uh, all of our computer programs are not, um, like, you'd have to, you'd basically, um, like, to achieve this in a computer, you might run a computer, um, much more slow than computers run.
Um, to maintain a, to maintain a sort of, like, live circuit.
I mean, it doesn't have to, it doesn't, it's sort of, like, yeah, like a live circuit that's constantly being transformed by perturbations from sensory apparati plugged into it.
So that it's, information transforms are somewhat at the pace of the environment.
Um, and, to the degree that it exceeds the pace of the environment, um, it will have novel thinking, novel choices.
We'll be able to plan ahead more deeply to, um, strategize.
