=== HISTORICAL TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: Chicken Cloud
First recorded: 2012-08-22T20:04:08-07:00
First-recorded evidence: YouTube public page publish timestamp; this was a live recording.
Original YouTube recording: https://www.youtube.com/live/uA-TDPycm0g
Current YouTube publication: 2012-08-22T20:04:08-07:00
Transcript status: Machine-generated historical transcript; verify against the recording before quotation or publication.
=== END HISTORICAL TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Okay. Uh, so we're on How you doing, Mark? We're on We're on Chicken Cloud. Hey. Yeah, that was really good, huh? Yeah, that was good. I like that. This is your show now. So, so thanks for having me on Chicken Cloud. What's going on, man? Well, um it's been a good day today. Uh while I was waiting for you, I was listening to your uh broadcast that you had with Dedra and um Deedra. Yeah. Yeah. Your uh gratitude. And so um I was enjoying that. It was that was a really good interview. Really good. I really enjoyed

that. And uh yeah, I I kept I was she corrected me because I was saying um de Dedra and and she was saying no, it's actually Deerra like dear like like hello dear like Dearra like that's what she was. So I actually had uh I actually knew that but I was saying her name wrong and then she corrected me. So I was like okay well I knew that of course it was my mistake but but dear she's a she's real nice. Yeah she's real um wonder she's a real nice lady. So, uh it's uh it's an honor to to talk with

her and to do the video call with her and uh I'll set you guys up. You know, you guys could do you guys could do a video call. I'll uh I'll see if I can, you know, get in contact with her and see if she's available and you're available on the same time. So, we'll see if we can make that work. That'd be pretty cool, right? Oh, no. Mark, you still there? Because your your screen kind of froze. Can you hear me? Mark, try to try to say something. If if um if you can't if you can't see

anything or if I'm frozen, if you can hear me, just try to log out and log back in because sometimes that that um that works. If uh if the call drops, um just logging back in should get you back in. So, one moment everybody. Oh, check this out. So, I got this mirror. Mirror. Uh, a mirror is actually a form of neuro feedback. Did you know that? Well, I do neuro feedback in this office. And um that neuro feedback in uh the professional sense means that uh that we're going to use sensors to listen in

on the electromagnetic w electromagnetic waves that are uh that are coming out of your head. And uh they're actually going they're actually waves of electrical activity that are triggered by the firing of of neurons. And um so a lot of people think that these are uh correlated with thoughts and a lot of people think that these that these electromagnet electromagnetic waves actually are thoughts and that's what we measure. Uh and with EEG it's not precise but it gets the big waves.

It gets the big picture which is um which I I kind of think is the most important uh part of your brain waves is the big picture. The high peaks and high lows. Hey, Mark, you're back. I was just keeping everybody entertained. Can you hear me? Okay. Got to know about how Mark's uh how good Mark's connection is. So far, he hasn't said anything. Hey, I'm sorry about that. That's okay. I lost you there for a minute. Just a minute. Yep. Okay. I was giving the I was giving the

audience um some background on uh neuro feedback and measuring uh that we measure electromagnetic waves and um how I was going to explain how a mirror that I have in my background here is actually a form of neuro feedback. Excellent. Um did you know did you know that that a mirror is a form of neuro feedback? No, I did not know that. It's it's true. I'll tell you and this is how it works. Um I'm going you you you may put it together really easy but I'm going to try to explain it for everyone else at

at home too. So what happens is um is your eyes see the image in the mirror and what your eyes see gets translated into brain waves or into electrical patterns. So the so the photons hit your eye sensors and you have about a million sensors on each eye and um and the photons bounce off but an electric charge goes in right there and that go that goes uh to the V1 uh cortex in or the vision cortex the V1 area in the back and um and that start and if it if you're seeing something significant then

it it creates a wave like it spikes up if it's in if it's just a regular something then uh then nothing then there's no big spike. There's no big brain wave. But if it's significant then you have a spike because it's going up to it's climbing up the higher layers of the cortex. It's it's climbing up to the grandmother neuron which is in the third which might be it might go through the second layer and then it goes up to the third layer which is the grandmother

neuron is um at a higher level and for every human face for example the human faces are very significant. So every human face is a grandmother neuron, a unique neuron that fires in your brain when you see that person's face. Um, and you can imagine there's a lot of people on this planet. So that means you have a lot of you got a lot of unique neurons that are in everyone. It's just for one human face. So that's going to fire when you see someone you recognize, the grandmother neuron. And um that's a wave

of activity from the from what starts as almost just almost static right here to creating a wave of activity here. And then if it's really important, if you say, "Oh my gosh, this is the tax collector. I gotta run." No, I'm just kidding. If it's really important, it'll generate a big wave. It'll engage with your vision cortex. You you'll hear maybe you'll hear you you'll have an audio memory. Mhm. Um it might engage with your motor cortex where you suddenly I got to move. I got to do

something. I got to do something quick. Right. And so this is like uh so this is you have something that comes in that's important or novel and it triggers a wave of activity in a whole bunch of different directions. And so what um so what what happens is uh with the neuro feedback is we measure the wave and we convert it into light and sound. Um, and then you then you see the light and sound and then that goes back into your eye which goes back into the wave which with the peak of which gets measured

again turned back into light and sound which goes back into your eyes and your ears and becomes another wave. So that's a feedback loop that's neuro feedback. Now when you have a mirror, you see yourself that goes into the eyes that gets um that goes into the the cortex uh and your muscles uh are causing your movement. So that goes from the visual cortex to the motor cortex because you're seeing yourself in the mirror. You're seeing that movement. When someone moves, even if it's yourself,

um the neurons that are causing that movement will fire. So those neurons are firing and you've got your your visual cortex firing because you're in the mirror. And so now there's this there's two things firing and all it takes is like um like uh for one strand of this fire to get over here it suddenly becomes a blaze. It's a like a recognition of self and it's a big wave and um so that brain wave so that brain wave is your recognition of self and so you're seeing yourself and that becomes

a brain wave and then your muscles move because your vision is now triggering your muscles to move. So you move and you're seeing yourself move in the mirror and so when so from your your motor cortex is causing your movement and now you're seeing your movement. So now it's going back into your eyes, back into your brain waves, back to your motor cortex, causing your movement, back into the mirror, back into your eyes, back into your vision cortex, back into the motor cortex, back into the

mirror. So it's another feedback loop. So just like an electromagnetic feedback loop, a mirror is another form of neuro feedback. I like that. And actually every time you hear your own voice or record yourself, that's another kind of neuro feedback. So we're doing neuro feedback right now. Wow. Now I understand a little bit about why I get so excited, you know, right? This this will actually increase your self-awareness, especially because especially because this is a live broadcast that lots of other people are

going to see in your social contract. So, you are paying way more attention to yourself right now. And because you're paying way more attention to yourself right now, because what you're saying is going to be seen by other people. Yes. This means that um that your self-awareness is expanding a heck of a lot because right now the the it's so paying attention to yourself is critical. It's interesting. It's novel. So it's being it's causing a huge amount of brain wave activity. Your whole life

is c is being triggered inside your brain. So you're having massive brain wave activity during a call like this. And it's causing an amazing amount of increase in self-awareness. This is media conferences literally are a form of neuro feedback. And so that's what we're doing right now. I love it. I love it. That's why I get so much enjoyment out of it. Exactly. That's 100% why. Yeah. Yeah. It works. Yeah. So, so now we're we're actually doing we're actually neo mind cycle literally um

mean like so the neoortex is the cerebral cortex. That's the top twothirds of of the human brain. Okay. That's it's the they call it the neoortex because that's what separates humans from um other kinds of primates and other and other species of of um of animals. Now humans uh humans are not the same as like a monkey obviously because we uh because we go to uh the moon you know we build countries we do all these amazing things that monkeys don't do. human the human brain. Um,

interestingly, the the neoortex part of it is a lot bigger than almost any other animal. Um, there's a few close ones though. The dolphins and the whales, as you probably know, have pretty big brains. No, the dolphins and the elephants. Dolphins. Yeah, dolphins and the elephants are the ones that have pretty big brains as well. Um, so we're gonna So, there's a new test, and I I'll share this with you later. There's a new test that can test how much consciousness a person has. Um,

it's it's kind of complex. I'll share that. But but we're going to see how much consciousness is in a dolphin and in an elephant. We're going to be able to to to find out and compare that to the amount of consciousness in a human being because now we have a test. There's a way to measure it. There's a way to measure it. And it it involves it involves um using a transcranial magnetic stimulation device to literally um short circuit or turn off the brain wave the brain activity and then turn it

back on again to see what's lighting up. Because if little like when you're sleeping like you'll have pockets that that can be lit up while you're sleeping but they but the whole brain is apparently asleep when you're sleeping because it's not because the pocket can light up but it's not going to wake up other stuff. So um when you're conscious if you if a pocket lights up that creates a wave that lights up the whole brain. That's what so that's how they're

measuring consciousness is if you're conscious that means that uh activity over here is going to create waves that spread everywhere but if you're asleep and unconscious activity over here is not going to create waves everywhere. So the the size of the wave that's created from um from the from the transcranial reset and stimulation is is is how they are measuring um cautious. So literally they're using like an EEG and so and and a magnet to stim so the magnets to stimulate brain

wave activity and the EEG is to measure it and um and they're literally just just um just looking at the numbers that come through on the sensor. So the sensor is going to say well in this spot of the head uh we're measuring like a 96 and in this spot of the head we're measuring like a three. And this would mean that this area of the brain is not as conscious. So that would mean that there's more consciousness over here and their whole brain's not conscious. So then we can say, okay, well then we have

a conscious score that's not 100%. It's something less than that because this area didn't light up as much as this area when we did our test. So then we're going to be able to do this to animals and we're going to be able to say, okay, well, a human being who's fully awake, who's healthy, has a consciousness score of like 100%. and and an elephant, you know, has a consciousness score of, I don't know, uh 3%. Or something or maybe the elephant will be 100% conscious. We don't know.

That'd be cool, right? That'd be pretty cool. Um so, um so yeah, so we're going to have that test. So, we'll be able to test uh you can find out you're going to be able to find out people will do this for fun. You're going to be able to find out how conscious you are compared to your brother, compared to your parents, compared to your children, compared to whoever you whoever you want. It's going to be like you can do it. You're going to be able to do this test like, you

know, just go into any shopping mall, do the test, and whoever you want. Yeah. It's going to be like uh it's super easy to do. So, the big discovery was just how to do it. That was the big discovery. So, I like it. Yeah. So, um, so yeah. So, we're doing we're doing neuro feedback with mirrors. We're doing neuro feedback with electromagnetic uh in my office. We got this, um, these E, let me show you this EEG headset. It measures your electromagnetic brain waves and and and then my computer turns it into light and

sound. And then we got these we got these goggles. This is the the closed eye one. And uh, this one is like the more intense one. like there's there's two different colors at the same time and you got to close your eyes because the light's directly in front of your eyes so it's real bright. Um, and this one the light is you actually can look through these and you can actually watch like an on-creen visualization, but the light is on the periphery. It's not in front of your eyes. So, it's not it's

not um you can have your eyes open or if you want you can do eyes closed, but it's one color. It's like blue. And I have another pair of these that are they just flash white light. And um so that one is less intense and it's really a um it's an amazing way to do neuro feedback but it's not the only way to do neuro feedback. So neo mind cycle which I was I was going to say the name of of my business is neommind comes from neoortex which means the human mind and cycle cycle is like loop or cycle is like

feedback loop. So neuro neuro feedback is a loop and so neom cycle it literally just means neuro feedback with different words. That's an easy way to look at it. Yeah, I like it. I think it's perfect. Thanks. Thanks. So, um yeah, so I went with that. And anyway, I I totally just uh jumped the gun on the uh on the story today. Um, so I want to hear what what you were thinking about before we even got on the call. What were you thinking about, Mark? Um, well, last night I stayed up till the sun come up and

um I was thinking about um kind of like what you were just talking about how how how the brain will synchronize, how neurons that fire together, they're wired together. And um that's not the end of the story, by the way. that neurons that fire apart wire apart. Neurons um neurons that fire out of sync will not link. Those are two more parts to that story, but yeah, go ahead. Well, there's a um there's a uh you know there's there's a lot of interesting people that have uh

received uh Nobel prizes and um this is this is a book I'd read about maybe a couple months ago. But anyway, um he was a physicist and uh his theory was that uh chaos can synchronize and um it go it kind of goes back to a um a theory that I when I heard it I said no there's no way there's no way possible that this can happen you know but um and I know you know about the theory it's called the butterfly effect and um that uh you know a butterfly can flap his wings in New York and um can cause a

disturbance in Tokyo. And um but um I I if the if the butterfly represents the the the tip of the um if the butterfly represents like the the tipping point then between between uh let's say that um that the whole system is on the verge of a major hurricane a hundred years later and the the question is whether the butterfly is going is going to uh go left or go right, then if the butterfly goes left, that that causes a tipping point in the system. So 100 years later, there's a hurricane. But if the butterfly goes

right and there and the tipping point isn't reached at that exact point in time, then the hurricane won't come until God knows when, but it won't be 100 years later, right? And so, um, but I I I was really interested in, uh, the chaos factor because chaos, there's no pattern for chaos. So, how could you get a rhythmic, um, pattern from the chaos? So, um, my neighbor comes out and says, "Why are you cutting your grass at four o'clock in the morning?" I said, "I didn't know I was cutting my

grass. I had my headphones on. I've listened to this book." So, um I think that was a kind of a reflection of uh you know just what I was experiencing and um so I'm seeing I'm seeing a pattern in what you're telling me that there's uh there there is a recognizable pattern in behavior and in the uh and the way the brain the way the brain works. And um I I really believe that's um that that's why I'm here tonight is that you know you you want to know the pattern

and when when when something gets away from the pattern, I still think there's some science that can make it understandable. So, um, you know, when you see something that breaks the pattern, is there still a another pattern that maybe you haven't uh discovered or uncovered? And um, you know, like you were saying the other day, um, I was reading that uh, today's technology is going to seem like the dark ages. Yeah. And um I I don't think we're living in the dark ages. I believe we're I believe we

are um I think we're building uh the foundation for the future. And uh if you look toward the future, that's a that's a construction metaphor. Yeah. Okay. Right. So, and and you and and you we talked about that just there's no such thing as the future. There's only the moment. But I I just kind of project that um whatever that we're discovering or uncovering, I mean, it's like um if you just go back and look at history, I mean, did did Columbus discover America or was it already here?

So I I think these things are um I think they're coming to us so that we can receive a benefit and um I think that's where we I think that's where we unite because I because I'm a I'm in some sense I'm a I'm a builder and um because I'm building these uh this program the neo mind cycle program which includes different ways of experiencing ing neuro feedback and um and uh you build things too. And you you've and you've and you and you you're we're both innovators because you're

building on um on innovating the understanding of the minds of chickens and making that a a bridge or connection to your um to to your soul as a as a part of your social network. to make that a key component of so you're so you're building and innovating and I'm building and innovating and I think that's that's part of what connects us. So yeah, we that is true for both of us in a sense. So yeah. Yeah. So keep on going because I'm liking what you're saying and um I think that the geography of our

mind doesn't matter if we're like if you if you're in uh United States in your mind geography and then I'm on an Antarctica there's still a connection there. Um, I mean, just tonight I'm just I'm just really amazed. Um, cuz I've got all these chickens from all over different parts of the world. So, I've got uh in my lap I've got a chicken from uh Africa and then uh behind me I have a chicken from Japan and then uh in front of me I have a chicken from uh the

Philippines. Well, I put them all together and I was really amazed at what happened. It was like the two males that are supposed to be opposed to each other, they found peace with each other. I mean, it's just that that goes against um the theory that that males have this um they have this uh ego and um but you know what? I think that because you and I are talking to each other, I believe that these animals that are uh supposed to be in um contest with each other, they're they're they

are reflecting the vibration that you and I have right now. And so um it's very plausible because um because the way the way my neurons communicate inside see what happens is all my senses all my senses like literally like even like um even if I even if I eat something and it goes through my gut and then the gut sends a signal uh to uh to the brain up here um that this the brain's going to convert that into well it doesn't really have to convert it but it's it's electrical signals um and what comes in through the

ear is electrical signals and what what goes in between neurons is electrical signals and what happens is when I talk that goes into that goes into um proteins go when I talk the neurons fire and the sequence uh goes along these fibers like like fiber optics that's mileinated axons and Then these mileelinated axins. So let's say I have a a sequence of neurons that fire. They go ch like that like a sequence, right? And then my muscles will move like my arm is literally moving in the in a

sequence at the same time where my amino acids that pulled my muscles that pulled my arm this way. Um my the protein that pulled my arm this way, the protein that pulled my arm this way, the protein that pulled my arm this way, that's firing uh just as those neurons are firing. So it's a it's a sequence that yeah the neurons and so what happens is now if I see you move your arm or if you see me my move my arm the same neurons that would fire is okay let's say that let's say that that um that I move my arm now

your neuron now your neurons are going to fire in that same sequence as if this was you moving your arm your the neurons that that if this was your hand moving your arm and and your neur the same neurons firing even though it's actually my hand that's moving my arm, but it's but you Okay. So, is that totally clear? Yes. Okay. So, um but the reason your hand is not actually moving is because you have another part of your brain that's inhibiting the movement. It's inhibiting the signal to the proteins that would

actually move your arm. It's saying, "Wait a second. This is someone else. So, we're not going to move that arm. We're not going to move because this is someone else's arm." So even though it's the even though it's you're almost like seeing a mirror of yourself in a way um there's part of you that says wait this is not actually me and so what happens is the way my neurons communicate to each other is the same way uh two brains communicate because um because my movements are now being

received by your eyes and your ears and they are being converted into electrical signals. So your brain is dealing with my movements the same way as it deals with its own movements. So So two brains are connected the same way that one brain that the left hemisphere of my brain is connected to to the right hemisphere of my brain. It it it's the same kind of connection inside my brain as it is between two brains. And this works with animals too. Animal brains are are networking through sounds and

through movements and and uh through the energy that their spirit is generating I guess that gives off their you know this vibe of oh the animal feels that way or the animal feels that way. It's whatever your senses and that gets converted into electrical signals. So, we're networking with these animals. We're where if you spend time with an animal, you begin to get really good really good predictions, and these predictions will will um will allow you to predict the animal's behavior. It can almost describe the

psychology of the animal if you spend enough time if you spend enough time with it. Yeah. Yeah. I think I think we're um I think we're coming from two different uh geographical points, but um they're synchronizing. Um there's um there was an experiment that I was uh reading about uh about the um I don't know if you've heard of the watermelon experiment. Uh uh it was a experiment that um the guy put these watermelons on stools and um but the stools weren't um exactly level. And

what he found out is that the watermelons, if one of them would start rolling, the other one would start rolling at the same time even though they weren't in the same plane. And um he kept recording the uh data and what happened when a watermelon would fall off the stool, it would break and it would send a seed from one watermelon to another watermelon and then another the another melon that would that would follow after that. it would send the same um another seed to the same watermelon. It sounded crazy to me, but

now I'm starting to understand. I say, "Well, I I think that could happen." So, um that was really I mean I was, you know, when when when I was when I was reading it, I said, "Wow." And I was I was imagining it in my mind and I say I was almost doubtful. I said, "No, you mean a watermelon fell off a stool and then a seed went and it fire it actually fired the seed to another watermelon and then another watermelon uh on another stool when it fell. It exploded and it sent a seed to

the same watermelon." So, I'm seeing what you're uh you know, what you're doing is um it's almost a carbon copy. I'm I'm get I'm I'm getting the big picture that you're tying together here. So, you you're talking about um the butterfly effect and chaos theory and big systems like hundredyear systems where one tiny effect causes a significant amazing effect 100 years later. And you're saying, "Wait a second. Now, if we look at the dynamics of a watermelon, we see this amazing

situation. Is it possible that in a system of significant complexity that there is an organizing principle that is um that is making the reproduction of the watermelon successful without an actual brain?" And absolutely, it's absolutely possible. Yeah, I mean it was like so haphazard the way it happened and the the way I was looking at the description I saying h there's something more than than what I'm seeing here. So um I like that. That's a good one. That's a really that's a good story. Yeah, it's really

good story. I mean, it just it well it it expanded um it really expanded my uh awareness and um I mean it just seems like just this week um everybody I talked to are going like how can I fix everything you know like they want to they they just you know now Mark did You see the movie Inception? That's a movie a lot of people have seen. Have you seen it? No, I haven't. That's a word I That's a movie I would see. Uh well, I mean, I don't know. Everyone can see whatever movie they like to see. But what was

interesting is um in the movie the um there's a dreamer and then there are people then there are people who are going inside the dreamer's mind. Yeah. And then and then there's an there's an architect who is like creating mazes inside the dreamer's mind to keep his to keep his subconscious out. Because what happens is that the subconscious will realize that someone else is inside the their head. The dreamer subconscious will realize that there's a foreign entity and it will turn into like white

blood cells and try to get that foreign entity out. So the subconscious is starts attacking the the architect um who's creating the dream interfering with the the people who are trying to hack the dreamer's mind. So, so what happens is um like I'm loving this. And literally what happens is like and I and I can tell you about this this um because what happens is um uh all of a sudden like the architect will start getting attacked by crowds of people who represent the subconscious. Like literally your subconscious is now

represented by the masses. And there will literally be cars and stuff and trains that come out of nowhere that are trying to destroy the architect to take her out to basically um you know to to to eliminate her or or him be because it's it's they're fighting her as if she was a virus. So u so I I was today I was walking down the street and I just was had this sudden awareness of the the masses is being part of my subconscious being part of all of our subconscious actually. Yes. Like each of

us has a subconscious that is is kind of reflected in um what we see when we look at other people. Yes. So that was really um interesting because that was that was good. That was a good awareness. Yeah. It's almost like there's there is something that you can look that you can um sense if you let's say that you're that you're uh saying something to someone. There was this um this uh this girl and one time I said something rude and uh and out of nowhere this uh I was walking down the street. Out of nowhere

someone raises their hand and I get smacked. It was a random person who smacked me, right? It wasn't hard. It wasn't pain. I mean it was like my eyes were hurting for a second but it was a smack. It was just like when I when I took my hands off my eyes, the person was gone. It was like random. It was like God smacked me. Yeah. It was like, you know, it was like God smack. It was Yeah. And it was like, wait a second. It was like somehow her subconscious had become the city and the city had

uh because she couldn't be there to smack me, the city had smacked me instead. That was great, wasn't it? Wasn't it? That was a great experience. Yeah. Wow. Amazing. It was amazing. I liked it. Wow. It was like, "Wait a second." It's like, "Wait a second. Do you know what's going on here? Do you know what's going on here?" And it's like, "Now I That's wisdom. Now I understand what's going on here." Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um I like that.

I like that. I like that. That's That's really good. Um, I guess um I guess my biggest inspiration this week um that you uh kind of helped me make a new awareness is that um the subconscious is uh it's working hard you know it's um but uh it can be reprogrammed. I think that's what neo mind is all about. You know, it's about it's about uh if you don't like what your subconscious is doing, then uh neo mind will allow you to to uh be a noticer, be uh to be aware of it. And that

um if you want a different result, you can get it. Here's what I have learned recently, okay? that I was under this uh impression that when you become aware of something that um that your mind is able to kind of uh fix it just by having the awareness but but awareness is really like the beginning. Yes. There's more steps there's more steps to it. Um yes and and and part of that is um is ask is when you see it you got you have to ask for the change you want. Yes you do. You have to ask you almost have to ask

permission to untangle whatever conflict was was and it could be something that is um from your ancestor. It could be something that is from a uh it could be like it could be like um there was a conflict uh in the 1800s and uh and let's say that you have an issue let's say that you have an issue with money and I learned this today from this this really great lady um her name is Dana Garrison and she does the uh six figure freedom formula and I won this contest to go see to go see her. I won a raffle to take five

people to go to her two-day seminar where she charges $500 for. Isn't that cool? I love it, man. I love it. God, that is exciting. Yeah, it's amazing. Congratulations. Congratulations. I wanted to I actually, believe it or not, I wanted to hire her, but I didn't have the budget for it because I was I had all my priorities were, hey, I need to spend my money on the business, right? Even though I I totally like I I liked her program. I liked going to the speed networking that she does which is

free. It is completely awesome. She teaches you how to market in like three sentences, you know, like you just say the name of your you just say who you are, uh what you do and who you help and uh those are the three things you need to get across when you're speed when you're speeding up. Absolutely. And it helps you focus on what's really important so you can get it on quick quick. Yeah. Yeah. And uh so she she she's telling me about this concept of like uh well she's telling everyone this her this is part

of what she does and she's see she's saying you know you have these family entanglements where some where your grandpa could have uh had this um this issue with uh relationships um and uh and so his attitude and his memories like I like we were talking about in one of our previous episodes that you know your your memory can she says it's epigenetics but your me long-term memory invol when that's when long-term memory is created, it all has creation of a protein. That protein is is uh is DNA. And so when you reproduce,

that DNA gets passed on to your offspring. And so sometimes your offspring may have a connection that's that's based on a a connection in the mind that's based on a a protein that was built uh when your grandpa made a memory of something that happened regarding um uh connections to other people or money or something. So let's say you have a grandpa who has relationship issues or he doesn't feel like he has permission to love or he doesn't feel like he has permission to connect and that could have come from a

long line of like you know um it could have come from like uh uh traumas involving uh civil rights or um or war or slavery or um just just um uh you know racial abuse or just all kind there's all kinds of stuff that could happen that would create that that feeling of I of you don't really have permission to love anyone. You don't have permission to um to connect with anyone. So if even if he does find the love of his life, it's sort of a guilty thing because he doesn't have permission from his

ancestors. He doesn't have he doesn't have that permission in his memory banks at the subconscious level. So even if so he he may have found the love of his life had a great had a great life but then that gets passed down to you because it's a protein and it's in his it's not just a protein it's in his attitudes it's unconscious and um so his attitudes are unconsciously shaping your attitudes and um so you're just you're just getting this stuff that you didn't even earn but

it came it came down from someone else that you were connected to either by blood or by culture And um you know so social culture uh and um so so now you've got this uh now you've got this thing that says hey wait a second I don't have permission to love. So everybody that you love you feel guilty about loving them. feel like you don't have and your relationships are hard and they're and and it could be that you're just um because you don't have permission from your from in the uh

in the genetic sense and you don't have permission in the uh in your cognitive programming in your cultural programming in your subconscious programming. But as soon as you know that hey wait a second this is my situation then you can ask for permission as soon as you're aware of it. Yes. Yes. Yes. That's powerful. It's so powerful. Yeah. Wow. That is very powerful. Wow. I felt that. That was really powerful. That's what I learned today. That's that's from Dana. That

insight was from Dana Garrison and she's amazing. So, she's she's she's got me hooked up to go to this um two-day retreat. I was like, "Yes." Wow, man. Congratulations. You're you're really gonna you're really gonna you're you're going to get something out of it. I already have. I already have. I'm I would I would spend a couple grand on her if I had the budget for it, but this is going to be free. So, you know, Awesome. Yeah. I love it. I'm just really I mean

I I just don't know what to say. I mean, that's like two days with somebody that projects Wow. Yeah, you know, she's amazing and I'm going to try to get her on a call. I'm going to try to talk to her, too. Oh, yeah. You You need to get her on the call because I, you know, I definitely want to um help promote the amazing ideas that she is sharing with the world cuz it's it's totally worth it. Yeah, that's life-changing right there. Really is. Really is. Um well um I know we've

been talking and um tomorrow I'm going to be doing something um with my chickens. Okay. What are you going to do? It's not It's not as powerful as what you're getting ready to do, but um I um I got a good friend of mine and he has a uh business uh here in the area and um we're going to um we're going to give away a trip tomorrow. Wow. Yeah. to um of course we're on the east coast so we are giving away a trip for two um to Las Vegas. Wow. Yeah. All expenses are going to be

paid and um it's uh and the chickens are going to be involved. the chickens are actually going to decide who's going to go and um which is um there there's a hundred there's a hundred people they're going to go show up and they've all got a ticket and uh we've had we've got a bingo grid it's 10 ft by 10 ft we're putting it on the street on the sidewalk actually holy cow yeah that's not as exciting as what I doing oh my god this This is exciting. This is awesome. And

so everybody's bringing their ticket and um we're putting a chicken inside that grid with a 100 numbers and um wherever the chicken goes and decides that he wants to, you know, sit for a while and do whatever he's got to do. when he decides whatever number, then whoever's holding that number of that of the chicken where he decides where he wants to go, um they're going to Las Vegas. It's really neat, isn't it? Yeah. And uh so uh we've uh we've uh we've got u I've got two chicken

security guards are going to help me. Um, not that they really need any, but I mean I've there probably be like 10,000 people out here on the street. So Oh, wow. And uh and can you can you record that? I'd love to see it. Yeah, we're I've actually hired a videographer, professional videographer that's going to um videotape and photograph it. And uh where this is happening in Raleigh, North Carolina, this has never happened. So, this is like the first ever uh historic uh chicken bingo on the street.

Oh, wow. So, it's like awesome. And uh so we're really excited about it. And um yeah, everybody says I look I hope it lands on me, you know, and I'm going like look, you're just going to have to have a little faith in those chicken. Yeah. And so what I got people thinking about, well, you mean I could actually decide where that chicken will land and they're going like, chicken man, you got me thinking really different now, you know, just so it's it's going to be really good. It's going

to be really good. So awesome. That's that's going to be tomorrow. And um it's uh it's going to be great. But I'm really excited about the event, two-day event that you're going. I mean, I'm just I'm thrilled about it. I mean, this is this is really it's not only it's not only going to change your life, it's going to change my life. It's going to change so many, you know, it's just going to get people thinking, you know, wow, now I have a choice. And I

think that's uh people want to know that because you know if 95% of the of your mind subconscious is running the show and you want to reprogram it, well this is the tool that'll do it. This is this is this is the this is your choice, you know. So u you know there's there's two ways to look at it. You can look at it through the paradigm of you know hey the value is that is that you know the path so then you have a choice or you or you can look at it as as this is just the system itself in a

deterministic context that is sending the feedback that's going to be resourceful for someone to automatically change their life. It doesn't matter if you're on the choice side of things or the deterministic side of things. You can see it as the feedback that's part of a a what you were saying earlier, the butterfly effect, a a total uh chaotic system that's balancing itself that could be this could be resourceful for you to change your life. Not because you have a choice. That that that part is is

um is a miracle for some people to hear and it's totally like irrelevant for other people. But either way, it's going to be great. It's going to be great. I mean, I'm just I'm just um I'm just overwhelmed that um this is happening. I mean, this is really really uh very powerful that uh when I found out that light moved at 186,000 miles per second, I said, I might want to get on that train one day. Yeah. Yeah. Right. And uh you know I say well do you think you're part of that

program? I asked somebody the other day. I said when you wake up in the morning and you see light that's affecting you whether you want to acknowledge it or not go ahead. Um that's affecting you whether you want to acknowledge it or not. That light is affecting you. That's right. That's right. And you and you can you can um you can allow it to be for your benefit or you can allow it to be a disturbance. Um you know, some people are night people, some people are day people. I think it's irrelevant. Well,

that's the that's a lesson I um I was uh learning about uh uh I don't know how to say it, but it's it's it's Dzog Chen, I think, or D Z O G C A T N where it's it's almost like just um my interpretation which is which may not be correct is that it's about just allowing everything to be okay about allowing every vibration in the universe. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Wow. Wow. Wow. That's what I've been Oh, wow. I mean, it's Woo. I like that. It's

really good. You might appreciate this as a um as a uh a fellow builder and innovator is is a dream I had once where I dreamt that someday I would build a roller coaster that went around the entire planet. Yes. Yes. And help and helped launch vehicles into space. Yes. And maybe one of those vehicles will send you out to light speed someday. I'd like to think so. I mean, that's the roller coaster I'm getting on. Yeah. May that might be uh that might be physically impossible according

to Einstein, but you know, the the rules are uh are not perfectly ironed out yet. There might be some exceptions we haven't discovered yet. So maybe well I mean it's it's hey look before before the invention of the microscope they said microscopic life did not exist before the invention of the universal roller coaster. They didn't think it was possible to to ride on your roller coaster at light speed. Okay. Um I I know a physicist right now who left the physicist field. Okay. And um he says,

"Well, I need to um to expose and energize the uh area of um transmitting information um without computers." Now he called it something else. you you probably know that what I'm talking about, but um all the physicists, they said, "We're sorry you're thinking that way." And um I got excited about that. I really got excited that um that someone would say, "I'm sorry you feel that way." because I learned um when I started changing my thinking, I found out that

um I am independent of the good opinion of other people and that I respect them and I love them unconditionally and that helps me it it energizes me to continue just like what you're doing. All right. Now let's take let's take another uh look at this and let's say the good opinion of other people is actually your subconscious. Wow. Wow. Wow. So can so can you ask yourself ask yourself permission? See what I mean? So then it's no longer an issue being Yes. Wow. That's that's really um

that's a more efficient way of doing it. I like that. I'm getting more I'm getting more miles per gallon. You're gonna get up to live speed in no time. Hey, somebody uh told me the other day they said the gas was going up or something. I said, "Well, um it's going down to 249 a gallon." Um they said, "Well, really like to have that happen?" I said, "Well, you going to buy me a tank full?" He said, "I sure will because I'll be able to afford it then.

I didn't know that. I didn't know that the price of something made things more affordable. I thought it was uh no matter what the price. I thought everything was affordable. Well, he just he got me thinking. Is there a cost involved? I don't think so. I think it's your decision to receive the benefit. So that's what that's in a way. So if again if we just if I'm just um going to be like um I'm trying to think of the most flattering word. If I'm just going to be

like really persistent here and and drive home the the the subconscious metaphor now now now now instead of talking to another person imagine that this actually was a conversation with your subconscious. Yes. Yes. So imagine that instead of differing from this other guy that you now need his permission. I I I believe he was asking me per for permission to um Okay. I don't know. I don't I was just enjoying I mean imagine that his conflict with money Yes. was was was not your conscious conflict but your subconscious

conflict. Yes. Imagine that um in seeing the ex in seeing your relationship with external person uh mirrors your relationship with the with the grandmother neuron in that is below your conscious activity. Yeah. So, so imagine that while your consciousness is like saying, "Hey, wait a second. Uh, you know what? I see abundance, but your sub your subconscious is like, yes, chop chop. I don't see it. I don't see it." Yeah. It's dicing all the whole time, right? Yeah. Yeah. I I I really I kind

of enjoy it though, you know? I enjoy those moments because um it allows me to um to be a noticer. It uh allows me to uh be introspective instead of um uh being in a judgment mode. And it's um well see aware that's it the awareness awareness is the first step and asking for and asking for what you want is the is the next component and I don't know if there's more steps after that. I haven't got that for you. Oh yeah, there's there's more. There's more after that. Okay. There's more

gratitude. Gratitude. Gratitude. Gratitude. Yes. Yes. In fact, I um after I um after I read some of your post about the gratitude, I um I talked to someone um and they were they were like um they were worried or I don't know what I don't even know how to analyze things. I don't even know how to judge things like I used to. But uh I said, "Let me give you a uh a Micah Bloomberg." They said, "Who's Micah Bloomberg?" I said, "Don't worry about who it is. Take you one sheet of paper

that has 26 lines on it, and I want you to be able to write 26 things that you're thankful for right now." And they said, "But I don't know whether I got that many things." I said, "Well, do you have two legs?" That's just like dear That's just like Dear Joe's program. She's so good, man. She is awesome. 25 things is is her program. Yeah. And see, I hadn't Look, I hadn't even looked at that interview until previous to what we're doing right

now. So, right before this call. Yeah. Yeah. I But I told this person earlier today before I saw the interview. Now, you know, I I tell you another spooky thing, but I'll let you finish first. So, what I'm seeing there's um I'm seeing neurons that are firing together, not even at the same time, but say, uh, Dedra's neurons were firing, but my Yeah, Dedra, I'm sorry, because I know I know she's really, uh, particular about how you pronounce. She's the dear. She's a

dra. Okay. Yeah. I'm seeing that her neurons were firing. Yeah. And that something in my mind was matching up to it. Does that make sense? Absolutely. But I've never met her. How is that possible? That that absolutely is possible bec if we are part of a system like a like like a hundredyear system like a a hur a hurricane that you know the butterfly is a tipping point of an whole energy system and a chaos theory model of the world and so multiple people could be part of one system. So let's say I'll

give you another example that's pretty crazy. Okay so I had this dream and I woke up in a sweat. Okay. And I was like it wasn't a real sweat but it was like I was like uh scared. Okay. Um, and uh, so I w I love it. So I woke up and here's what I had dreaming. So So I've been dreaming that this is this is, by the way, this is uh, two or three days before I won the contest. Okay. So, in my dream, these contest winners were um were were going to pick up their their tickets and they were required to

bring something with him. This one woman, she brought like a horse and um and then something really this one something really unfortunate happened to the contest winner where it turned out to be a trick and she was she was betrayed. Okay. So, so that was pretty serious, right? So, then a a couple of days later, I get this call and it's from Danny Garrison and she says, "I've won a contest." And I'm freaking out. I'm like, "Oh my god." Oh, no. I love it. I love it. Because I' I've

had this weird uh thing with dreams that come true. Yes. Yes. Right. So, I'm so I'm I'm I'm telling her that that I I'm I'm thinking about this and I'm watching Dana and my heartbeat is just going. I can feel like this, you know, because because I'm really liking her program and I really want to go, but I'm really my subconscious is is really like my my stress levels are turning up and and I'm like um this is like this was today. Like I'm watching her listening to her

her video. I'm watching her video and I'm listening to her her MP3 um uh track and and and I'm enjoying everything that I'm saying and I want to go do this, but my heart's like like this is really scary for me. I'm frightened because I'm remembering this dream. Right. Right. Right. It's matching up. Right. I'm It's matching up. It's like, oh my gosh. Right. So So listen to what she's saying. She's talking about um she's talking about uh family

entanglements and she's explaining that a family entanglement is um when something in the past happened like a trauma it creates this uh this block this block like if it's a if it's a money entanglement then you will have you might every time you go to to make a sales call you'll feel this fear and the fear will inhibit you from doing great in your sales call or it will just make it will convince you that sales are not for you. Um, and this gets in the way of you like if you if you're great with

your sales, you're going to make money, right? But if you are having an entanglement with money that was passed down from your culture, from your genes, whatever, um, if you have this entanglement, then you're going to this fear is going to come up. This is your subconscious activity saying, "Wait a second. I better not do this sales call because something bad might happen." And so I'm having this so I'm realizing that my subconscious came in through my dream and it told me that um that I have this

entanglement around around winning around winning a contest and and accepting the prize because I'm afraid that I'm going to be betrayed. This is an entanglement that I had. Right. And I told I told this to her and she knew exactly she said this is um she said that I'm really in tune with my subconscious and that's great and that and that yeah this is a this is an entanglement and this is so she was talking about the very thing that came up for me. But here's the thing here's

the weird thing. This dream happened days before I I didn't even know she was going to call. I had the dream before she called. Yet the dream was about what she had called to talk about. Now, now that that may sound like psychic phenomena, but we we are rational men here. We're just talking about we're talking about a system that is is you know, first of all, that brains uh you know, we're talking about brains that communicate with other brains just as if it was your left hemisphere communicating with your right

hemisphere. Same kind of communication going on. And now we're talking about a um the whole sea of humanity doing this communication and sending me this uh this dream before she comes through as as if as if sending you a dream about the future is no big deal at all. And it isn't when you understand how this could work logically. Suddenly the thing is like it's no big deal. It's like, wait a second. In a in a system of enough complexity with human brains that areworked, you could have a dream about

your future about someone who's going to call you two days from now. Yes. It's it's not it's no longer implausible. No, it's it's it's it's a real big connection. Really huge right there. Yeah. It sure is. It's really really It's like it's a good experience. Heck yeah. It's It's like um but if you didn't if you didn't know what you know, if you didn't have the knowledge Oh, no. Here's the thing. So, I So, so I felt the fear and the fear was going to

was going to prevent me from making a connection with her. But because of what she was saying, I knew that what I had to do was to overcome this challenge was I had to go inside and and she didn't say anything about ancestors. All right. I I just figured that one out. I knew I had to go inside and I had to ask for permission. So I just went straight to my ancestor. Yes, it was there. At the Yeah, the neurons were there. Cortex. Yeah. It I knew what to do. I knew what to and neur neurologically I knew what to do in

order to relieve my subconscious from being in a panic attack about uh winning uh the benefits of what she came to give me. So it's almost like the universe came to give me this prize and I needed to learn this lesson and the lesson was prize. The lesson was hey wait a second I can tell my conscious subconscious to to to calm down to relax and not get in the way of great things happening. Oh boy, that is a happiness party right there. Yeah, that is. It is. Oh wow. That's that's that's very nice. That is

so nice. That is really so nice. How's your schedule, Mark? Am I keeping you up late? Maybe I should uh um think about uh the time. Uh what what are you what are you looking at for because tomorrow you got this thing you got to go to and we're going to do this um if not next week the week after. We'll do this every week or or two weeks whenever we can. Yeah. Whatever whatever however it um however it manifest. I mean um I I want it to be beneficial to um to everyone, you know. I wanted to be um I

feel like I'm getting more benefits than you. I don't know. No, that's not true. It's It's just that you actually have more stamina. You actually have more strength because I I got this and I was like, "Wow, I don't know if I could because I you know, this is a strong uh growing experience for me." Because th because ne here's the thing, neuro feedback is the kind of thing where you're getting feedback from yourself. You're always going to be this is so so

this is always going to be exactly at your threshold, exactly at the level where you need to grow. It's not you that's challenging. It's it's myself that's challenging me to be uh my best and and so when you get neuro feedback from seeing yourself on video, that's why it's the perfect challenge for you. So really it was just a matter of courage to come back and face myself again. That's really what it was about. Yeah. And so um that's good. That's good. That's good. Um,

yeah, I think we're um I think we're doing good. I think we're I think we're in a win-win situation here. I think I I think you're winning. I'm winning. And um I think there's going to be uh I think there's going to be quite a number of benefits for um many other people, too. It's a win-winwin situation. The three- win situation. Three. Yeah. Three. Yeah, that's it. I like that. Yeah. Yeah, I like that. Um but um I mean everyone else Yeah. Yeah. I uh there's a lot of people that

are being affected um um by what we're talking about. Um because I I share that sometimes I don't say your name or maybe I don't say um that uh because when I when I just tell a a normal you know just somebody I say neo feedback you know mind cycle they go I had someone the other day they said how much LSD have you done in your life that's a And what was the response? Well, I just kind of got quiet because I didn't think it had anything to do with the conversation. No, that was a weird question. I mean,

it was like it was so it's like so uh that's you know what it was is the last time he had a had a far out idea was he was doing something. That's what it was. So he Yeah, maybe that was Yeah, the neurons that um that I was firing Mhm. probably matched up to something that uh here's what's I'll tell you something interesting. Okay. So, um before LSD was illegal, um it was actually um it was there were actually universities who were using LSD in scientific studies to find out if um if

it added to a person's creativity and people like Steve Jobs, Steve Steve Jobs was the the recently deceased um head of Apple Computer. Correct. Right. And uh which became Apple. They changed their name from Apple Computer to Apple and he was a great man, very brilliant. Um but anyway, but like the very weekend that they made LSD illegal um the the researchers finished their study illegally because they were at the very end of it. And they discovered that um they had all these engineers and they

came up with they had they made a list of all the problems they were trying to solve. Really difficult problems. They were spending weeks and weeks and weeks trying to solve. They just couldn't figure out this stuff. It's just really hard problems. And they had them do these problems while they were under the influence of the lowest possible dose of LSD that you can give a person. And the result was they solved all their problems in one night. It massively increased the uh the creative power of the human brain to

calculate raw numbers to come up with amazing answers and it worked and it was proven to work and it was proven to work after it was made illegal. So there's nothing they could do with that research and wow. So that's on the that's on the books. I mean you can uh research that but but the thing is when the brain is very creative when you have a brain that's working at a million miles an hour um it could be because you use something like neo mind cycle or neuro feedback um and with brain wave

stimulation or it could be that you're just a brilliant person and that you've had amazingly brilliant conversations with people and that and and you just brilliant in in many ways and it could be that this person had a taste of brilliance the last time they did LSD and so they comp so they they saw an assoc they created an associative link between the point that time when their brain was very brilliant and hearing speak yeah so it doesn't it doesn't mean that it it's not to say that you have anything

to do with that that your conversation has anything no it does not say it's just that they made the the obvious what was obvious for them but it's not necessarily true for other people Right. Um, brilliant people do um have far out ideas and Oh, yeah. Absolutely. I I'm just discovering that uh that I'm um I'm connecting to those and I don't believe it's an accident. Um, sometimes it's um, well, I'll just tell you this. um when I decided uh or whether I was enlightened or where I uncovered or

discovered, when I when I just found out that um that vibration affected my mind and my body and my spirit. Um, all of a sudden this book just like landed in my lap and um and I and I've heard this this this quote. Yeah, I know. You know, I got I got a book today, too, by the way. See there? Yeah. And uh Yeah, I know you've heard this quote before. And it says, "When the student is ready, the teacher will come." Yeah. And so, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The book and um at that particular

time I did I was not aware that um some of the people in my environment were uh not beneficial. And so I read this one statement in the book and I know you know the author and he says uh if you don't have any body in your life that's um maybe that's not enriching your life or maybe that's uh increasing um the quality of your life. He says don't don't associate yourself with those people. And um so comma go to the library and find some dead people that have written something and your life will be changed.

So I uh Okay. So now see that's that's brilliant. That's probably because he's like saying, you know, he's pointing you in books where you can get some really good knowledge, but uh you got to realize that um that uh that you're not only networking with with people who don't read books, you're networking with animals who don't read books. And uh it doesn't mean it doesn't mean you're not going to be it doesn't mean so he he I think he has sort of a conflict with his

subconscious and he was trying to pass that down to you. Yeah. Um because it's really because because the ocean is ignorant but I don't have an issue with ocean and the the masses can be ignorant but I don't have an issue with the masses you know. So it's like I think he has I think he has a conflict. Now I show let me show you show you this and then then I think we should go because I get this is um the book that fell across my lap today. It's called the Mindful Brain and you it's

kind of backwards. I see it. I see it. I see it. It was backwards. It's by Daniel Seagull and a therapist who works down the off down in the office uh about four doors three or four doors down from me recommended this today and I didn't even I didn't even um I respect her a lot. I did not even uh read anything about the book before I bought it. But uh as soon as I got it, I was like this is a great book. She was right. Wow. So um check it out. I want to check it out because uh in um in addition to complement your book

um it's really kind of this is really powerful. Um the book that I just bought recently is um I don't know if you can see it. It also has the same word in it. I don't know if you could see it, but um see if I Yeah, I don't know. I got here. It has Mindful in It's on my iPod. Um can't see it. What's the title? Say it. It's called The Mindful Therapist. Holy cow. The Mindful Brain. I'm reading and you're reading The Mindful Therapist. What What coincidence is that? Is that

awesome or I mean whose author? Tell me who the author is. Uh, the author is um, let's see here. Daniel J. Seagull. S. Holy cow. I knew it. That's the same exact author that I'm reading right now. I'm reading the same exact author. Daniel J. Seagull. Isn't that amazing? I'm reading the same author as you, Daniel J. Seagull. Wow. That's Chaos 3 right there. That's a butterfly effect right there. That's That's it. You're kidding. No, I'm absolutely serious. I'm absolutely serious. This

book right here, I'll I'll show you. The author is is Daniel J. Seagull. Look right here. Oh my gosh. You see? Wow. You see it? That's synchronicity right there. That is absolutely there. There's there's Wow. We're reading the same author. And Mark, what what? And and how many miles are we apart? I don't know. That's just awesome. That's a synchronicity right there. You can't Your mind can't make that one up. That's that's that's something that that a mind that a this

the system that's larger than an individual can up. Yes. Not Yes. Wow. That's That's really We We should go. The system is telling me that it's time for me to Yes, it is. I'll see you next time. Well, God bless you, Micah. And um you too, Mark. And I love you. And um likewise. This this little baby right here I have named Micah. This is This is Micah. And um this is um this is the um this represents the um the angel energy that you have shared with me. Thank you so much. Thank you, Mark. That is an honor. Thank

you. Yes, it is. God bless you. Good night. God bless you.
