Neural Array Projection Oscillation Tomography Theory 5th Revision.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vixhppNAKPs 
Sep 18, 2022
Video Transcript

Alright. So, We are live. Let me go ahead and make this a little bit smaller Welcome everybody. So we're about to get started. I'm just going to go over the note that I created last night, which was NAPOT five. So, it's going to be note number three hundred and 10. You find it real quick. Here it is. NAPOT five So, behind me, you can see this is the, I'm at the South End Rowing Club and I go out there and I swim in the bay. This is the San Francisco Bay behind me. Um I've I've spent many times this month. It is very nice and so I'm here early this morning. I brought my swim trunks but at the moment, I'm going to try to explain the note that I published yesterday which is a theory for how human phenomenological consciousness works and how we can make machines that are conscious like animals, like dogs. they'll be self-aware and the self-aware neural networks can run on ordinary computer systems. because we can we can we can abstract the way the the operations, the austitory operations of the human brain. Um and if you understand my work then you understand how it's possible. Uh so I created a a short poem for the art article and the the poem is drifting off when I saw the word for me. My mind starts to wake up. My poetic, excitatory post synaptic potentials innovate my layer two, three, pyramidal someones and I think, wow, a new article in Firmions At last, it was not Fermians. Firming Periodox. Ugh I feel my inhibitory engineer neural decoupling for my excitement for a physics post. about aliens but which is cool but the firming paradox is Anyway, disclaimer for this note. I use the word neurons almost exclusively in this note but a lot of cellular computation in the brain is done by other types of cells, the interface of neurons. I mean, when it's being gliocells like astrocytes, oligo tendercytes, and microglio. There's a lot of interaction between nerves and T cells and and all the other cells of the body as far as I know interface with the brain cells. So, while neurons are the focus this note, keep in mind, this is not the whole picture. The astrosite sound particular is not to be able to carry out essentially the same functions of a neuron but at a much slower time scale with different internal processes. A slightly different set of gliotransmitters, some overlap with neurotransmitters, and they have slightly different, maybe slightly different role to play in the brain. I want to talk about neuros generally the primary focus of this note is about the paramedic cells in particular. A type of neuron that have branches for for the summer in addition to branches for the basildendrite and computationally sophisticated apical dendrite branches. I would like to think that other types of neurons share the same functional framework with Abi with different morphologist but obviously the sixth layer neurons do not burst at least not with the frequency scene in fifth layer, neuron bursting. So, they're going to be functional differences in non-peramidal neurons that do not have fancy apical dendrites but do have back propagating action potentials which is which is part of which is a big focus of this note. Okay. So, neurophysics, the title of neurophysics, linear, non-linear computation at the neuron, neural right, cortical column, and column assembly, scale, memory, prediction, renderings of the mind. That is phenomenological ly conscious experience. The that is phenomenon, phenomenal. That is that is the conscious experience of being someone or being somewhere. Okay. So, I'm talking about the neurophysics of how neurons compute and in neural arrays and corporal columns and cortical column assemblies. Uh to to render to do a memory protection rendering of the mind that is your lived in experience. The experience of being someone or being somewhere. That's what that paragraph means. It's it unpack that a little bit more but essentially phase wave differential oscillation patterns. Formulate a tomographically shaped topological experience. Your experience. In other words, the computationally rendered experience of reality is both threaded and observed piecemeal by cells in oscillating feedback loops. Our cells are printing the patterns of the mind onto each other inside cyclic oscillations that are functionally fractal feedback loops. Our brains are computationally printing our sense of being somewhere and our sense of being someone from the contrast of our raw sense. A raw sense is a formless awareness established by a tonic oscillatory brain activity and this formless awareness of raw sense forms that that forms the forms the shape of being someone and forms the experience of being somewhere and forms all of the things that arise as contrast or face wave differentials to this form cross ends. This ground of being. summarize that I'm saying that your tonic brainwave patterns establish like a baseline of experience and your phase wave differential patterns are excited excited and inhibited signals that traverse this tonic oscillation brain activity Our our giving rise to the forms that you experience, that you see. This is the the experience of being someone somewhere and the experience of other things around you. So, essentially, communication in the brain at the level of neuron is about phase rate changes. With varying neurotransmitter magnitudes resulting in the unique communication patterns that recode the synapses of each neuron. An array of neurons pass their phase wave changes to other neural arrays and columns of neural arrays in the new cortex maintain an active memory state with a regular tonic firing of action potentials. And a certain cadence. Hey. Such as. 20 hertz. It's I'm at the South End Club and swimmers are. Swimmers are coming in and they're chatting. I I might get interrupted. So, let's I'll try to keep going but. Oh, okay. I see it. Yeah. Okay. That he retired. Yeah. You know, you know, isn't anybody here? Oh, I see. Yeah This is the South End Ryan Club. There's a gem. It's been like this. and so now, I'm outside. As you see, it's it's beautiful out here. Yeah, I can continue out here. Um Okay. So, where were we? So, essentially, communication the brain at the neuronal level is about phase rate changes with varying neurotransmitter magnitudes that result from the unique communication patterns that recode the synapses of each neuron. An array of neurons pass their phase wave changes to other neural arrays and columns of neural rays in the neocortex maintain an active memory state with regular tonic firing of action potentials at a certain cadence such as 20 hertz, 40 hertz, 60, or 80 hertz and these are identified these are also identified as power band frequencies in the EG imaging. Uh there's Delta Theta Alpha Beta, Gamma, and High Gamma. Tonic frequencies are thought to be gossian or like pink noise or almost random with low to no information. They're commonly thought. They're actually not. the the the tonic oscillation is very precise but they're thought to be almost random or having very low to know information value. They have a high magnitude which enables or or sometimes referred to as a higher amplitude which which enables a widespread synchronized firing and a low frequency. We also have a low frequency. So, compared to the other alternative brain winds will be discussing which are burst burst rate firing. So, they manage keep the brain at a steady, ready state or a state of or a criticality state and their pattern fluctuations are very precise. They manage to serve as attractors in neural activity to maintain patterns that are changed by irregular action potentials, burst rate firing, and slow wave potentials which are then absorbed by the tonic by the regular tonic firing which results in mind being changed by the new render patterns that Oscillate and then are observed by the brain the same way. Patterns from the world around you are observed by the brain. In fact, this is one unified process. Um and I said that in two ways to help explain the idea. In other words, the the patterns around you in the world are persistent and your brain is recognizing them but then your brain is recreating or rendering patterns that are as consistent to your brain inside your brain as the patterns that exist outside your brain that are persistent enough for you to perceive them. So, your proceeding patterns inside your brain with your brain because the patterns inside your brain are persistent oscillations just like the patterns outside your brain, the world around us is can is persistent oscillations. The word outside of us and inside of us is both persistent oscillations. Um I just think that's funny but it's true. In fact, there is the varying magnitudes and frequencies of synaptic transmissions, dendritic activity, and the Soma burst rates of whole neurons. Plus, the changes in frequency patterns encoded in the whole columns of the brain and across the columns of the brain, the thalamus, and hipcampus, result in varying levels of inhibitation and excitation. Variations and timing of oscillations and tomographically antified, a rendered patterns that are observed by the same cells that are making the rendered patterns which are phase wave changes these result in tonographically intified rendered patterns that are observed by the same brain cells that are making the render patterns and these render patterns are phase wave changes which are passed by the neural outputs, the neurotransmitters. So, I said it, said it was better pronunciation that time. Okay. So, the synaptic neuronal column and brain wide network oscillation sculpt and render the experience of reality and then it's doing its own input pattern from neuronal outputs as that pattern is looped or played back to the neural network of the brain which detects it. With neurona inputs the the brain renders, via its outputs again. The new sensory input data. And this neural array this what this is what I'm describing is neural array projection oscillation tomography. Theory revision number five. Let me see if I can skip to another area. Uh the building, this club gets a little bit busy in the morning. So, see if we can find another spot. Okay. Perfect. Found another spot. Alright. So, we're going to go at this other. It's a really nice club. Alright. Uh so yeah. Welcome to my lecture on neural the way projection oscillation tomography. Theory revision number five. So, the varying frequency and magnitudes of action potential transmission, the varying frequencies and magnitudes of neurotransmitter release kind of release result in the unique transmission of patterns from neuron to neuron and from neural arrays to neural arrays and from cortical columns to cortical columns from within from neural arrays within cortical columns to neural arrays and across customized cortical column assemblies and the brain's macroscopic networks via the matrix inhibitory intra neurons and also via the the excitatory post synaptic relays from the sixth later pyramidal cells. With each synaptic transmission of phase five change differentials including the forward and backward propagation at the synapse scale, forward and backward propagation of at the Soma. And looping signal transmission across cortical column assemblies. There are cortical column frequencies that are changing. And individual neuron tonic frequency patterns are changing. And frequencies encoded in each synapse of each neuron are changing. With individual synapses up regulated in frequency or down regulated in frequency Affecting different neural patterns that result in different neural pathways that shape the configuration of patterns in your mind as you experience them. With different individual synapses. Upbreak regulated in frequency or down regulated in frequency. They affect different neural patterns that result in different neural pathways. The shape the configuration of patterns in your mind as you experience it. And I said it. I said it better. So, this phase rate coding with varying magnitudes of neurotransmitter release plus individually encoded synapses result in considerate detection. Meaning the neuron and the dendrite consider patterns that they have grown to prefer And their physical synaptic phase rate configuration. Allows them to selectively ignore or pay attention to the patterns on a millisecond to second time scale at the single neuron level. At the neural or raise scale. And on longer scales at the longer time scales at the column scale and longer time scales at the column or whole brain scale. Consider detection at the neuron scale is paired with consequent emission, a phase rate change, and a magnitude release of neurotransmitters that is different from usual. And or it can be described as an unusual pattern change to the brain An unusual phase change is information in the context of information theory. In fact, it is rendered information because the phase changes persistent. It oscillates in time and space like a printed object with low persistence. The term low the term for virtual reality when discussing displays that lose the image they're holding quickly to prevent image blurring and also, these displays transition faster to update to the next version of the image from the new head position. The neuron with the synaptic configuration represents the considerate detection because it's detecting clusters of patterns in a step wise manner. The dendrite is going to do is doing a step wise or computational or mostly linear summation of non-linear cluster-based computation. See, the cholester for reference. You just have to look up the cholesterol. Uh it's a paper about an artificial neuron called the cholesterol. Um so, we're talking about order or clustered cluster-based computations order clustered via arrival times and arrival proximity. From its synaptic inputs across the neuron whole body, neuron's whole body over time. I argue that the metaphor of the leaky integrate in fire neuron is conceptually flawed because the control of the potassium outflow is very precisely controlled because of the upper down regulation of individual synapses. And it's critical to the phase, wave, shape change. So it is metaphorically incorrect. To say that the dendrite leaky membranes and it's more correct to say that the neurons have precisely regulated valves that open or close to compute the phase wave output of the neuron. We could say that the neuron is doing a non-linear input computation but that just means inputs can arrive in any order from any of the synapses and basically a non-linear input means that the nearest threshold mechanisms at different scales are considered the sum of the aggregate charge from all possible inputs within a temporal window and that is that is that is in part also configured by the morphology of the cell and its connections plus the up or down regulation of individual synapses. These are the neuros pattern detection mechanisms. The neurons output is formed from the clustered sum of its inputs over time. So, a neuron considers the clustered sum of its inputs over time which is the same as a non-leader competitions at a linear computation. The non-linear computation is also described as the gradient potential and the linear computation can be described as a synaptic threshold that feed into the dendritic thres that feed into the somatic thresholds. In other words, the neuron detect specially distribute inputs across its membrane and computes them with almost the same with almost a combination of summation and multiplication of the inputs. Multiplying the charges for example to an MDA receptors on the same branch located next to each other fire within milliseconds of each other. We're adding the charge of two synapses five from different branches of of the dendrite and via the synaptic dendritic and somatic thresholds. The neuron is collected information to a temporal pattern creating a phase wave variation or differential that has a magnitude and a frequency. The magnitude and frequency of a wave have an inverse relationship so that when one grows, the other shrinks unless well, okay and then and the the phase wave change results in a change in the magnitude that's that's that's true if if the magnitude and the frequency have an inverse relationship as long as the voltage, the the current the resistance remain constant. but so the the magnitude okay so when the phase wave change results in a change in the magnitude of the neurotransmitter release which is part of the phase wave which results in the synaptic frequencies which is results and changes to the synaptic frequencies of downstream and sometimes upstream neural rays in short small synaptic changes result in bigger somatic phase wave differential patterns and vice versa the neuron is effectively considering information patterns to the winning of charges positive and negative ion charges and the clustering of these charges based upon they're coming from and at what rate and it's doing this complex pattern detection with this unique dentric branching and synaptic connections from its social network or it's network of cells nearby. Uh side note, also a human being essentially a fractal neuron. A fractal of a neuron. Perhaps your digestive system argues a fractal with mitochondria and your heart is might be the soma and your head might be the nucleus and your hand and arm on the left side might be the basal dendrite and your hand and arm on the right side might be the apical dendrite. Your head is like the fact of an eyeball. The outer layer of the gray matter is analogous to the retina and the thalamus is analogous too. The focus point where the light converges is all sensor. There's all the sensors. Um sensory inputs connect to the at some point and the thalamic matrix inhibitory enter neurons connect all of your cortical columns together and co-regulate the configuration of your cortical assemblies. Your fingers and toes are also like dendraising the palms of your hands and feet are like the Soma. And the legs and arms that connect to your body are like axons. Imagine that in the future we'll have machines that can instruct your body to reconfigure its biological shape because your proteins can turn into viscous and liquids temporarily and then reformulate into solid structures. And and that's there's a there's a programming behind that that makes it that makes the business liquid liquids last for a specific amount of time. A human being is an is essentially a liquid metal robot that is that is apparently without a processor, without the processor or energy to facilitate a real-time biological transformation but biological transformations are computed and they happen over the course of evolution with advanced computers. We could in theory expedite evolution to happen many times in a single lifetime. We could in theory Transform our bodies and minds into anything we want as long as what we want is biologically possible. Love that idea. The the primary input to the neuron, the dendrite, is doing the detection of computation of patterns with branches of synaptic inputs. These synaptic inputs are accepting or releasing charged ions or other receiving or receiving other signals. Based on signals from other cells. Allowing a single neuron to represent a unique temporal and spatial pattern on a millisecond to a second time scale. Which which is a reference to BTSP Behavioral Time Scale Synaptic Plasticity. It is a pattern encoded by other neurons. Its pattern is encoded by the neurons but a single neuron can also help recode its own patterns to be a signal feedback loops without the neurons. The result is a change in the neurons output and that means a change in the neurons phase wave which which results which translates into a change in the magnitude of the neurotransmitter release. The neuron will fire an action potential every so often at some tonic rate and its clock and it has a clock like regularity. And then a nerd is a a biological clock. You can imagine the large layer five pyramidal cells with its apical and basaldendrus is a clock that has a regular cycle for summer burst and it's clock speed for some burst. is changed by the phase changes and it's synapses across its membrane. And the changes in up regulation, down regulation of ion channels, including input from the map metaboltrophic sensory receptors are changing the in the apical and basildendrites which change the timing or the timing of the clock's readiness using really clock and computer. Um with the same sort of meaning but yeah so like with the clocks right in there so the processor's readiness. It changes timing and response to certain signals. The parts of the pyramid regarding the pyramid of Song as example. The parts of the neuron which may include the basal dandrite, Soma, and the are constantly being either excited or depressed towards a change in their own whole phase rate or rate. Resulting in a change in the neurons output the neurotransmitter release and that is the attractor that represents the phase wave pattern change that then modifies the synapses of other neurons. The change and and it continues to also the the oscillation down the line. The change in the neurons output or phase weight pattern has several options. It can return to spiking in some regular interval or what I call the tonic firing rate that could be a twenty, 40, 80 hertz for example. These are power band oscillations like Theta Beta, Alpha, Gamma. Tonic is higher magnitude and lower frequency but in a it's an important characteristic that synchronizes broadly with other neurons. It's higher magnitude and it becomes part of the group oscillation. Usually, whole cortical columns will oscillate together at the same frequency range but in addition, the brain unites cortical columns that are oscillating the same frequency range and inhibits connections between cortic columns and cells. They're not firing in the same frequency in the in the same tonic frequency range. Synchronous firing rate link cortical columns across the brain depending on the task that you're focused on. The changes by feedback loops between cortical columns and nephalamus. The combination of tuning from six-layer parameter cells via the neurons excites the second and third layer parameter cells with EPF with ESPS excited post anaptatic potentials. Um and the In this program, and this this program is to face rate changes of the this excitatory synchronization from six thirty parameters summons of the second and third layer pyramidal cells called via happens via the Islamic neurons helps to synchronize multiple neurons together. Uh and across the brain and brain regions that are not corical homes. As long as they're firing at the same tonic frequency. So like the India. Can't sync with cortico cons. Uh power band frequency is like alpha theta bear, can you? So, also the synchronous activity between the six layer parameter cells and the flamic matrix inhibitory inter neurons that connect to the the cortical columns together will also will use GABA neurotransmitters to inhibit communication between cortical columns and cells and are not oscillating together at the same time a firing rate. This inhibitory inter neural process allows your brain to change the task or focus on very quickly by realigning which corticocoms are working together and which cells working together and which patterns are revoked in which sequence. Basically, the inhibitory internal noise help to selectively block groups of of of cell assemblies across the brain and inhibit the communication between cell assemblies that are not in the same oscillation. The dual midbrain F four. Okay, so there's an article that that I reference called the dual midbrain and forebrain. Origins of Islamic inhibitory enter neurons. Um and it says rub in contrast to quote unquote networks, the satatory neurons and thalamus do not can't connect to each other. Um instead, local connections and computations within the TC circuits are dominated by the resident inhibitory gavel releasing inter neurons. Okay? I started packs for that because I said so the sixth layer neuron paper that links links to synchrony and six layer neurons and intra neurons which links to this Okay. Okay. So, what I'm saying is there's three papers that linked together. So, there's a paper that's the six-layer neuron, neural tuning paper and that links to the sink. The there's another paper that is to sit by synchrony between the six layer neurons and inter neurons and that links to this paper on how matrix ceramic sub populations are related to the spaceship temple cortical connectivity gradients. So, those are three, I didn't, for some reason, I didn't link them here at something I need to fix but those three papers I want to make together because basically, they tell a story. So, the core and matrix cylatic subpopulations relate to the spatial temple cortical activity gradients. This is another paper. Um basically, the cortical connectivity recapulate recapitulates large scale, low-dimensional connectivity ingredients within the cereal cortex. Diffusing matrix regions preferentially that preferentially correlate with cortical regions with longer intrinsic FMRI tiny scales. Core matrix, architecture, of the is important for understanding the network topology in a manner that supports dynamic, integration, and signals distributed across the brain. The complexity of cortical circuitry has also been shown to underpin a gradient of temporal time scales across the brain with associate regions fluctuating across relatively longer time scales in the sensory regions. Uh genetic perspective on the brain suggest that the cortex is supported by several subcortical structures of shape constraint or augmented activity from moment to one basis. One such one such structure that is crucial for shaping whole brain dynamics is thelamus located in the thalamus is reciprocally connected with the entire cerebral cortex along with the primary sensor sensory receptors such as the retina and dorsal contract and numerous other subcortical systems such as the superior colliculus and cerebellum. These inputs integrate distinct, anatomically segregated subnuclei with the that are surrounded by the shell like gaba urgic reticular nucleus. Through the activity, dependent gabaurgic and hand condition of cortically and subcortically driven activity. Athalamus plays a crucial role in shaping and straining the patterns of whole brain dynamics. Matrix, stalamus, coupled couples to regions of slower time scales. This is the tonic frequency tonic areas of the brain is in. Uh that they're they're slower in frequency but they're higher in magnitude. Uh so, we observed a significant positive correlation between CPC and intrigic or CPC. Um core matrix neurons. I don't know. What is CPC? I don't know. So, we so we observe significant positive correlation. Uh the intrinsic time scale suggesting that regions of longer integration windows and associative range. So, suggest, okay. So, the point was suggesting that regions of longer integration windows and associative regions of the cerebral cortex may be due to an increase in regional fractality. So, previously I said that we have events that happen on large scale happen across the brain. Whereas, you can have events that happen on a millisecond time scale can happen can be detected, you know, at the synapse and with behavioral kind of scale synaptic plasticity events that happen on the second time scale happen at the neuron and so the idea is that the larger the group of cells that are clustering together the the longer the time scale that you can consider. So, if we built, if we built an artificial robot that was the size of two human brains, then, it could focus on events that were it could focus on thing on on executing events at twice the time scale. Uh I don't know if it's twice the time scale but it's like at a longer like you have more brain than a human brain is larger than a massive train, then we can focus on events that have a longer time scale or events that continue for a longer period of time that a mass can can focus on. And you can have to spend enough time with the cat that you that you can that's one advantage of of a larger brand is you have a longer, longer focus. You can hold on to a thought for a longer period of time. Uh longer integration of Windows. Let's let's keep going. Let's go. We got the recording a video that is saying, we may support the notion of Quasi critical resting in the resting brain. In a results, excuse me. Our results describe the relationship between the relative weighing of distinct cortical population. Uh between the in the and low-dimensional spatial structure of temporal and topological gradients in the cerebral cortex. So, the interactions between the gradient structure of these diverse systems neighbors are represent a key organizing principle in the for the nervous system. So, that is a that's a really good paper. I'll put the link here. Here's another paper. Uh so, the midbrain thalamus cortex reorganizes cortical dynamics to initiate movement. the midbrain thalamus cortex circuit reorganized cortical dynamics initiate movement. This is a big concept. Motor behaviors are often planned long before execution but only released after civic sensory events, planning and execution and I'm quoting from this paper. Are each associated from distinct patterns of motor cortex activity. Key questions as to how these dynamic patterns are generated and how they relate to behavior. The key questions are how they're generated and how they relate to behavior. Here we investigate the multi regional neural circus that link Auditory GoQ that they're saying to a mouse and the transition from planning and execution of directional licking So they're trying to queue. You're saying a word to the mouse. I'm trying to give it to the mouse to associate with directional linking. Uh licking. The mouse is licking something. So ascending the glutamate the glutamaturgic neurons in the midbrain reticular and the the the ponting probably mispronouncing that. I've never never tried to pronounce that word before. Nuclei show, short latency, and physic changes and spike rate that are selective to the go queue. The signal is transmitted. Okay, so with medical imaging, they they're saying the signals transmitted via the thalamus to the motor cortex. Uh where triggers the rapid reorganization of the motor cortex state from a planning related activity to a motor command which turn and drives. It just drives the appropriate moment. So, so real quick, you're, when you hear a word or phrase that's triggering, you know, it's going to go to your ear and it's going to trigger the audio cortex and audio the sorry. It's going to trigger the ear and it's going to travel first to the thalamus and it it's and then it's going to go to the audio cortex but they're saying that there's a there's a signal coming from the thalamus that's going to the cortex that's that's preparing movement or behaviors or the licking and anyway, the paper goes on. I'm not going to read the whole thing that I quoted but I'm going to move on back. So, back to what I was saying. Columns in the neocortex maintaining synchronized firing state with other neurons. In that same cortical column and these synchronized states are primed by the six-letter pyramidal apical dendrites via the core neurons to be in a ready state to fire and via to be in a state that's ready sanctifyer because of excitement, excitatory signals sent to the summons of the second and third pyramidal sounds. I think I need to clean up the sense. There's there's the word inhibition shouldn't be that. Um but the tonic synchronous. The tonic synchronously criticality ready. Um state is achieved by EPSP. Excited for a post synaptic potentials. Sent to the sum of the layer two and three paramedic cells. And this makes your mind excited. Uh higher the tonic frequency, the higher the magnitude of the tonic frequency, the more alert you are. Um and the more awake you are. Uh so. It's basically they're they're stimulating part of your brain that that we all go outside together. Dorrance, go back outside here. Alright. So, this is how, okay. So, this is how your mind is paying attention. The higher the case. So, the priming of the mental alertness state which makes the brain more sensitive to the so this is so the EP the excitatory post anaptic potentials are essentially priming the mental alertness state. That makes your mind more sensitive to irregular spikes from the dentrites. whether they're physics bites, high physics spikes, high phasic bursts, or slow inhibitory patterns or slow weight potentials. Maybe I should say slowing away potentials. Um our SCP slow cortical potentials. The effects of or DC potentials. The effects of inhibitions are slowly potential since the slowdown. The agristom of brain activity by some tiny but precise amount for a temporary period of time. Slow wave potentials. Whereas I also call them negative action potential are also solo time waves. They have a persistent osteory effect that travels. And this has information value in the context of information theory where less common signals have higher information than more common signals. So, whether it's a phasic, high phasic burst, you know, burst rate firing or slow wave potential that is changing relative to the average clock rate or frequency of neural action at multiple scales. The phase wave changes come with a change in the magnitude of neurotransmitter release. It sends a unique message rippling through the brain. The neurotran police release is is an attractor that changes the oscillations of your brain. Uh oscillation patterns that your brain is making. and so so the neurotransmitter really sends a unique message that ripples to the brain via chain reactions and this is called a sharp wave ripple that comes from the bursting the bursting fire the bursting is firing rate is what triggers a sharp wave repulse actually and the cell ground is from an energy or inverse charging extra cellular potassium gradient contributing to brain waves and slow wave and slow slow cortical potentials that we can measure with way of changes that we can measure with electroencephalam. So, the phase rate changes are also encoded in changes to the blood glucose levels, blood oxygen levels, and blood flow. So, we can study brain activity with the broad variety of medical imaging techniques like MRI, MEG, infrared light, or F nurse to name a few. And actually, there's a lot more medical imaging technology and we're not going to cover in this paragraph but you'll be able might learn more later. So, to recap this, a neuron can be inhibited for a duration or can fire at some faster range and there are multiple faster ranges with burst potentials that range from 150 hertz up to 600 hertz in special situations. The irregular phasic action potential that fires irregularly, fires faster than the tonic potential, inhibition fires much more slowly, burst fire much faster and travel the farthest and they have both the highest frequency and the lowest magnitude because the waves because with waves, there's an inverse relationship magnitude frequency. The lower frequency tonic rays cause mass synchrony in part because lower frequency rates have higher magnitude in terms of their area, regional, or spatial effect. But the distance they travel is also shorter. So it takes a lot of links. The thermomic matrix inhibitory internal neurons. Between a lot of little cells to maintain synchrony across vast distances. Of the brain. Refre Normally, Anna is going to fire at regularly at a tonic rate but it might fire physically faster at an irregular interval that is both different and faster than the tonic firing rate. Irregular intervals provide a contrast to the to the regular intervals And their irregularity implies that they have information value. Help them get some lightning. In the context. Hang on. Let me go to another area. In the context of Clyde Shannon's information theory and the regular intervals affect clock cycles of every other neuron in its synchronous assembly. Via the physics of Oscillation that apply to everything including clocks and fireflies. This is a reference to Steve's work. So, if the action pendulum happens again at the same time or place, as a previous time or place, then, it represents a concurrence of past and future events. And So, let's see. Alright. Just trying to get a little bit of quiet and see if the action picture happens again at the same time or at the previous place then it represents the concurrence of past and future events in space time and the tracks this by having the post on the side of the neuron, sometimes called the sometimes called the exit terminal. Learn the patterns from the soma and send a back propagating action potential towards the sauna in the space time event is expected. If the front side of the neuron and the then joint and the basal then drying. The dendrite or the basildendrime sees the expected event at the same time. The charge that it sends to Soma combined with the charge that was back propagated to the summer and that creates a high physic burst potential. An example is that the neuron that was hosting a hertz considerably burst to 200 hertz creating a sharper wave ripple or a cascade of action potentials in a firing sequence across the brain that mirrors a series of steps that the organism acts out in the real world followed after the action potentials completing the real world by backwards playback in the same seat which is how your brand understands what you did something in the past or plays back an internal mental sequence backwards really fast. Interest first between the chain of action potentials and a sharp wave of ripple are low frequency Um let's see. our low frequency. So, interest burst. An example is that the, okay firing secrets of prosper brain that mirrors a series of steps. The organization plays out in the road followed by after the action is completed in World War. Backwards playback of the same sequence. Uh so intersperse between the chains of action potentials in a short play ripple. Our low frequency, high amplitude, inhibitory waves, set by the decay rate of the action potential or the plateau phase or the extra pretended duration resulting in the magnification of the pattern that the action center represented by the synaptic configuration of its X terminal. The inhi these inhibitory waves cause tiny shifts in the hostile retiming of the tonic frequencies that change our our brain wave. Uh brainwaves a little bit. They change our expectations in a certain way. Um I I think I think of I think that be. I'm thinking that emotions are probably the time probably changes in the tonic frequencies like big shifts in tonic frequencies from like 20 hertz to 40 hertz. I say that because emotions are kind of like high high magnitude and low frequency, right? They're not, it's not a lot of information in the motions. but you feel it in a lot of places and so that's what I'm thinking that emotions are really like the the the we're experiencing the tiny variations in the in the tonic frequencies. Uh tonic frequency shifts. So like when if if you have a section of your brain that shifts from a 40 hertz tonic frequency to a 20 hertz tonic frequency is a change in emotion. That correlates with how like people who are depressed have have like a much a much greater amount of of theta waves and delta waves. And they have and people who are drinking coffee who are alert and they have they have many more beta waves and people who are very happy might have many more gamma waves and so there seems to be there is a brain wave, atomic frequency, brainwave, correlation with that's correlated with emotion and that's so I think that yeah the idea that emotions are actually like the low information tonic frequency patterns that are sort of like high manicudes. You feel them in a lot of area but there's not a lot of data in your emotions, right? And So, that's a new and that's a new theory that I need to write down but anyway, so to recap part of that, I have it on video. It's just it's good enough. Uh but I also want to write it down. So, three cap part of that. Now, you have the postnaptic side of the summer and in the pyramidal cells, that is called the apical dendrite and in other neurons that is called the X terminal, you also have the pre synaptic side of the Soma. Uh I think I'm I'm actually calling this. I think I'm the okay. So, instead of saying post synaptic side of the neuron What I mean is the post somatic side of the neuron. In the pyramidal cells, it's called the apical dendrite. That's the part of the neuron that's after the soma, the apical dendrite and the other the and that is also the part of the neuron is called external and then you have the pre synaptic side of the so I need to make a note too. Change this. You have the pre somatic side of the neuron and most neuron which is called the dendrite or the basaldendrite. In the pyramidal cell and this is a side neuron facing the sensory input somatic sensory input neural pathways including the layer one and layer two inputs from the ethalamus. probably layer three and four. That's fine. If that I don't know. Let's see. If the irregular action potential happens at the same time or same place, then it represents a concurrence of past and future events and space time because now you have the post synaptic side of the stoma and the pre synaptic side of the stoma that are going to encode seconds long BTSP behavioral time skills and optic plasticity. And that's going to include seconds long temporal spatial pattern coincidences. Uh pattern coincidence detections on both sides of the time. So on both sides of the neuron. So what I'm what I'm saying is like the dendrites are going to detect patterns then so synapses detect coincidence. Coincidences, dendrites detect patterns, and the soma detects pattern coincidences. Basically, two space time events happening that are recurring. Uh that happens at the when with the Somafires. And the pyramidal somafires. And this means that the pre somatic side of the neuron and the post somatic side of the neuron have supercharged someone's action potential. It means we gotta back propagation from the and coincided with the forward propagation. From the basil right. And the post and so it's the same SpaceTime event, an event of consequence happens again at the same time or same place as before. It produces a high phase of burst rate firing which is going to be between 150 hertz and 600 hertz. Um I'm arguing and I don't know how many others in the in the in the past have previously argued this. The place those can be thought of as local space time event cells. And that the functions of spacetime event cells are primarily to encode, remember, predict, and computation you enter space time events which are temporal spatial pattern coincidence detection and rendering processes and to and so the primary functions of spacetime event cells or or place cells is to create burst firing events initiating sharp wave ripples when there is a pattern match between the presoma and post soma size of the neuron. I know there's a pattern match between the basal dendrite and the apical dendrite. And I'm arguing that the place cells or what I like to call local space time events cells are effectively ubiquitous throughout the cortex not just in the hippocampus but in every quarter column. And mini co However, I'd argue that the fifth layer parametal cells in the neocortex are functionally placed cells or space time event cells that are not having to do with the place of the organism but instead are having to do with the place of the object, concept, feeling, or thing around the organism such as the example of a cortical column tracking the orientation and place or position in space and sensory features like texture, heat, color, size, and weight of a cup of coffee which is an example from Jeff Hawking's book, A Thousand Brains. I argue that apical and basaldendrites work together to create seconds long memory prediction renderings and this concept is a combination of BTSP behavioral time scales synaptic plasticity with NAPOT narrow the right project and oscillation tomography so that your mind is doing within the context of a cortical column what your mind is doing is rendering space time events for a cup Jeff Hockings example relative to your place and space which is thought to be organized by the hippocampus and and the between the memory prediction rendering and hippocampus and the court of column activity that represents features of your cup be the matrix in the loops yields how your brain is representing a coffee cup to yourself at each interval of your temporal spatial render experience. The coincidence of firing from the back propagating apical dendrite and the Ford propagating basal dendrite. Then represents a recurrence of a past, space, time, event, or a memory prediction rendering. Now other neural arrays are tomographically assembling via synaptic coincidence detections dendritic pattern detections, and somatic pattern coincidence detections back into phase rate changes that cause the process to repeat or recycle or loop in neural or other neural arrays and eventually back to the same neurons and eventually to your motor outputs and nerve endings to change your movements. So, you have the post soma side of the neuron, the apical dendrite or ecoterminal and the side of the neuron, the basal dendrite or input terminal and these are going to encode seconds long BTSP behavioral timescale synaptic changes but specifically, they allow neurons focusing on pyramidal cells and focus on paramedic cells to compare patterns. Your neurons compare patterns and the pre somatic, sorry, the pre somatic side of the neuron and the post somatic side of the neuron are going to supercharge the action potential event if the same pattern happens again at the same time or in the same place. It's like the post so much side of the neuron, the apical dendric. It's encoded with expectations that are set by the previous action potentials but it's back replication timing is modified when the synapses on are up regulated or down regulated by their cells. Essentially, the patterns represented by the branches of the apical dendrite are at the terminal can be recoded not just by other neurons but by signals sent out from the same neuron via excelatory phlegmic, the excitatory systemic feedback circuit that leads back to the same norm or to other neurons in its cortical column. New content, combination. behavioral, time, scale, synaptic, plasticity, memory predictions, AKA BTSP, predictive coding, and predictive coding. For seconds long, pattern coincidence prediction within the function of a single neuron or fifth layer permatal cell. The post-traumatic side of the neuron is encoded with expectations, memory predictions learned from somatic firing and these memory predictions are modified by bi-directional synaptic plasticity on the apical dendrite and one burst firing happens, the memory prediction becomes a rendering. A memory predicted rendering to its inceptive field which is defined by the Neural Array that it outputs to. In summary, the apical pattern of the post-traumatic side of the neuron, learn from the last irregular phase of firing happened and it's back propagation firing based on the pattern it's predicting will be adjusted with signals from the synapses via bidirectional synaptic plasticity. When the apical dendrite predicts that the sum is going to fire, it sends a huge sense of surge of back propagating charge from the post an average side of the arm back towards the and if the pattern of the neuron from the pre-somatic side matches the input from the post somatic side of the neuron and the firing. That's a physic burst. At that point, the neuron could temporarily jump into a different phase pattern, burst rate firing could be 150 hertz, 200 hertz, 300 hertz, 400 hertz up to 600 hertz. And I argue that the human brain is a finite. This is a sidebar. The human brain is a finite state machine because the total number of possible states are between 02 hertz and 600 hertz. Times the sum of all possible places we're face is can't exist. Which is the sum of every synapse and every brain cell in the brain. So the sum total of all possible brain states might be something like Athic billion neurons. Plus 1000 trillion synasis times six hundred 18 hertz. That would include all possible state changes from the cabatropic and ionotropic receptors and all top-down state changes from cortical column assemblies and and and and brain brain network assemblies from from the midbrain and the cortical columns. The maximum frequencies seen in the brain are around 600 hertz. I don't know if 600 hertz have been measured in in human brains specifically but I've seen papers that they've been mentioned in other species and animal brands that has been served at breast rate firing is between 150 and 600 hertz. What we can see from researchers into play between high-frequency patterns and low-frequency tonic patterns. For example, there are papers that highlight the interplay between high phases of gamma burst and slower. Tonic oscillators in the theta frequency. In in the SkitHub and Note A zero zero zero one Z, there's a note that shows us that when an organism is driving its own behavior, you can measure the amount of signals coming from the frontal cord deck back down to the lower part of the cortex and you can see this or just some other part of the brain like the mid brain and you usually the midbrain and from the distal ends of the hierarchy feedback loops, this is a prefrontal cortex. Areas for example, back towards Olympic areas of the midbrain or down the and or down the major nerve fibers towards the vocal cords for example. When the organism is making choices, or determining its own behavior, information flows this way. From the top down, from the distal gray matter towards the membrane. And you can measure the amount of brain activity coming from the front of the cortex back to the lower parts of the cortex. You can see the shape of the pattern of signals is a lot greater and there's also an echo location paper in my notes that I think is linked from note number one but from note one but but there's a greater quantity sorry it's not a zero zero zero Z. Just to be specific. Uh so there's a greater quantity of activity coming from the top down. The when you when you're take when you're making choices and doing actions. Um so from the furthest or most distal end of the hierarchical feedback loop backwards towards the century inputs. And motor us. That's an incomplete sentence. I need to fix that. So, sensory input goes into high, goes into hierarchy to the top which might include the frontal lobes and then it loops, cycles, and oscillates for a time while your brain is considering compiling its next action sequence and then the action potential sequence program shoots back out. The motor output channel is causing your movements. I like to imagine as an analogy, an overly simplified perspective on the flow of brain activity where at the macro from a bird's eye view where phase differential activity comes into the tonic, oscillating brain network. This phase differential information loops through the cortex like the wind, following different and interesting neural pathways across cortical column assemblies. Beyond the formless beyond the raw form of sense described the initial paragraphs of this note, I argue that the high magnitude, low-frequency tonic oscillations across the cortex, the more advanced I argue that okay so beyond the raw formless sense that I described in the first paragraphs I argue that I argue that the sense consist of high magnitude low frequency tonic oscillations across the cortex and the more advanced form of this concept is the default mode network the DN the DMN default mode network was originally noticed to be deactivated in certain goal-oriented tasks and is sometimes referred to as attack negative network but the default message from Wikipedia that's in this. So, the default mode network becomes involved in tasks that via the cortical column assembly which we talked about in this note. So it's not a it's not it's not a tax narrative network but because it gets involved. It's your brain gets involved with a cast. It may start at as a task negative network. That's it. Maybe it's a default state, right? But then but then it becomes undefault. And it starts getting involved with tasks. So the reward enhances connectivity between the Ventures Triatum and the default mode network Uh so, this is a paper and I quoted from the paper strikingly we found that the experience of reward enhances task-dependent activity between the DMN and the Venture Striatum. In fact, that was specific to the DMM. So, basically, they're saying that the veneocortex started chatting with the with the with the with the with the basal ganglia with the venturous item and and the the coupling or the links were strengthened when the organism was receiving an award. We started to highlight some modularity of brain regions to couple and uncouple and unique arrangements to accomplish different tasks at the behavioral time scale for the organism. The modular cortical column assemblies which mean like different parts of your brain chat with one another at different times. Can unite areas of the brand such as the Venture Stride M and the Default Mode Network. The paper does not the neurophysics of rewards in terms of how they mechanically strengthen the connections between the DMN and the BS but based upon my reading of the paper under alternate, my conjectures of the phase wave frequency is matching between the DMN and the VS and there are united and joint brain activity with areas that are and with areas that are and with the other areas that are out of sync being inhibited by the inter neurons to support their continuing or oscillating communication between the areas that are in sync. I can fix that. So, as the bird's eye view above cortical the bird's eye view above corticom assemblies at the bird's eye view. You can see that the sensory input signals go into the brain's network and then they cycle brain activity loops and then the activity goes out through the motor pathways, driving behavior changes. If you want to be really simple and create a a silly analogy that helps translate this, complexity to something you can build in a computer system. Imagine, you, if you're the computer architect. Imagine that we're we're talking about the game Sonic Hedgehog And the Sonic Hedgehog represents the sensory inputs. Sonic Hedgehog involves a running character that runs through 360 -degree loops that go upside down. In an abstract way are in an abstract way. Our sensor inputs bring in phase wave differentials. Like Sonic the Hedgehog entering his loop. So I'm comparing Sonic the Hedgehog to a Faithway Differential. Okay? And with the representing the abstractly with loop representing the strange neural pathways of the brain. It abstractly represents. So, we're so we're abstracting away the complexities of the neural paths of the brain to to a simple loop. So, we can imagine how we can build a convocational system As we can imagine what needs to happen when we build a computational system. And so this is very simplified example. Um so that the more people can understand. Uh but so for hedgehog. Uh one neural pathway is fundamentally isomorphic to the next because he goes in one side of the sensory inputs and he loops around it. And and we're going to be talking about hippocampal, neocortical, cylamic loops. And he comes at the other side. Via the motor core motor outputs. Uh to the nerve endings and down the midbrain. To the nervous system below the brain. Repeating this abstract analogy. So imagine sonic representing incoming signals goes into his 360 loop from the left side of the loop. a big because in a in a big circle upside down, he goes in a big circle upside down. I gotta fix And back out of the loop on the right side of the loop. So, imagine a loop for each of your senses, senses, each of your neurons in a neural array, and each of, in each neural array in a part of the cortex and column, and each column in a cortical column assembly, consisting of multiple brain regions working together. Each of those parts of your brain is an additional loot that's not like a hedgehog has to loop through. Some loop neurons are drivers which means Sonic passes through the loop. Essentially, the same as he was before you enter the loop and some of the loops are modulators which means sonic has changed, reprogrammed each time he passes through the loop. To complexify this abstract analogy, even more, The signals are also noised over time and distance as the phase wave differentials gradually pulled up, pulled apart, and absorbed. Uh it's a phase wave differentials are gradually pulled apart and absorbed by the brain's tonic oscillations which can accurately be described as a gravitational effect of oscillatory physics. The pull apart, distribute, and dissipate the phase wave differentials across the sea of higher amplified low frequency tonic oscillations. However, the changes in the structure of neural network that grow between neurons or atrophy between neurons as a result as a result of the anticipating Sonic hedgehogs are actually learning to predict in a process called memory prediction. Uh the pass of future incoming signals predicting future paths which lead to the brain being able to render into its own increasingly into its own mind, increasingly more complex information patterns over time. So that an adult will necessarily have a higher definition conceptual rendering of reality compared to a child's brain. When we scale up from neural arrays or neural circuits or edge communities to mini columns or in cortical columns and assemblies of cortical columns and loops between the midbrain and cerebral cortex, think of this. Again, as a larger set of loops inside loops, and imagine a stack of Sonic and Hedgehog loops inside the formation of a loop. Now, imagine Sonic the Hedgehog is dissolving as he travels. He's also repairing later on when Phasic burst trigger sharp wave ripples. Cortical cortical and hippocampulous is the paper And hippo and hippocampocortical co-rippling are facilitated by spindles and upstates but not by Thalamic Ripples. So I'm putting from this paper. Uh Salonic Cortical Spindles and Upstate Strongly Facilitated cortical and hippocampal cortical and core rippling. So there there Talking about different reasons of the brain talking to each other and the rippling of signals that I've been talking about passing between these different loops. And while Islamic ripples may not directly drive multiple cortical or hippocampal sites at ripple frequency. These sites may ripple synchronously. In response to the widespread activation from the cortical spindles and upstates. And that's that's that's possible because it's not just sequences of action potentials. It's sequence of inhibitory waves. That emerged from these sharp wave ripples. So, imagine the process of sharkwave ripples can be extracted compared to diffusion networks such as stable diffusion. It's not just a behavior pattern that is rendered by a sharp wave ripple. That behavior pattern is also a rendered sequence between narrow rays and each step of that sharp wave ripple sequence that is surrendering images in the mind's eye of that organism, the sharp wave ripples are chains of phase wave differentials that represent the patterns that you can see in the canvas of your phenomenological consciousness. The fifth or sixth layers of perimetal cells The link to the best. The fifth or sixth layer parametal cells that are these these are loops from the top of the neocortex back down to the bottom. Top of your brain. Um and they they connect down to the the first, second, third, and fourth layers be the thalamic matrix, neurons, and the thylamic core neurons. Um the salonic core neurons are basically the neurons that connect a cortical column to itself and a loop. In the matrix neurons are the the the thonic neurons that connect cortical columns to each other. Um so, to summarize, a new cortex can be can be anatomically described as having six layers and the top two layers have cylamic connections that are signals back down to the first four layers. However, there is interesting work at Nementa. Uh Jeff Hawkings and and and the president of Newmenta. They argue they they argue that there are more than six functionally distinct layers and they're more than maybe I think I forget it was like 11 or thirteen function distinct liners in each cortical column. Um in terms of how signals are routed. So, you can read their work. Uh I I quoted it here. So, read this paper. It's called The Theory of How Cortical Columns in the Neocortex Naval Learning. Uh Enable Learning, the structure of the world. Figure number seven, mapping the sensor motor inference network onto experimentally obliged critical cortical connections. Arrows representing documented pathways. Therefore, it's an input layer. There are two threes, an output layer, green arrows, or a few forward pathway, Islamic cortical relay cells. Anyway, so we check out that paper. It's more specific than I'm that I'm getting into. But it's really useful because what they're doing at Nemanenta is is is extracting is similar to what I'm doing because they're extracting principles from biological function and applying them into complication. So, we can create computers that are like the mind. Which is really close to our base. Basically, it's in the same category. That's what I'm doing. Um most of your incoming senses heads straight along to the nerves of the thalamus. Uh Let's see what is. Okay, I'm skipping ahead. So, Emma, so, so, we had the silly abstrain of incoming signals entering the brain like being like Sonic the Hedgehog, traveling through his 360 loops and his path and chain, he could change by his path and the path of the signals travel loop and the functional neural pathways themselves have been observed by neurosciences that are very clearly described in papers such as the one that Nementa linked above and I think this analogy can help people who aren't familiar with computational biology and your physics to begin to build a picture in their mind that phase way of differential signals have to travel a path and each step of the path, the mental image is rendered that is is rendered in the neurotransmitter release that is being reserved by the next array of neurons. And so most of your incoming sentence had straight along nerves to the thalamus and then they're fed into the neocortex, the olfactory, neural pathways a little bit different and that forfeits a bit connected with parts of the near cortex before they connect with thalamus. Um but essentially the thalamus is like Rome as described in history books. All roads lead to to two thalamine and from the the like they connect to the whole brain. The thalamus, the thalamic cordon signals loop within a single cordon. I covered this already and the matrix cells, the matrix, intra neurons, help shape the connections between coral columns. The limbic activity also connects with the hippocampline to renal loops, sending receiving information like central hub. Some have compared the thalamus to a router. But it's actually different from the abstract comparison to a writer because the thelamus modulates signals. Most of the Thomas modulate signals. So, so there's drivers and modulators as I covered earlier and the drivers just pass the signals along and the thelamus modulates them. This helps this, this is like when you change sonic badge on. You're helping to change the helping to shape the signal pass between cortical columns. It's another another thing that Thomas says, it helps to shape the signal pass and it helps to define cortical column assemblies. We have the inhibitory enter neurons and the and an excitatory post and ethnic potentials. Um Banner Loops. Banner Loops. So, the activity also connects with the hippocampal internal loop. Uh did I already cover this? Yeah. Okay. So, maybe I had to rephrase the cortical calm assembly is to macro mess the scale. Sell assemblies because in my mind, what I'm on when I say quote unquote calm assemblies, I'm also thinking about cortical connections to the midbrain. This this can include live cortical column assemblies that connect to the hippocampus such as the hippocampl and a tree in a loop and cerebral to basal ganglia connection, cerebral cortex, basal ganglia connections. For example, the connection between the default mode network and the ventures by item. So, my expectation is that these areas of the brain that are united by synchronous firing and separated by inhibitory into neurons with connections to the thalamic neurons, the matrix neurons are playing a role in selecting blocks of cooperating brain areas that are useful to accomplishing one task versus another. So, the is like a central player that helps program in his partner by oscillations from all the areas of the brain that it connects to when the paths of the signals change, you're rendered memory, prediction, and sequences change and your mental lived in experience of reality change. However, you're not a passive observer in any sense because any thoughts you have or any action that you have is feeding the information is leaving commutation that is shaping an outcome. When phase differentials AKA mental information come back to the hippo campus, it doesn't always loot back into the new cortex. Sometimes it travels down the midbrain into the limbic system to your body, to your fingers, to your toes, generating new movements for your body. New actions for the organs going to take. New tasks that you carry out moment by moment. When signals leave these abstract, Sonic the Hedgehog loops, they travel out of the motor branches. Motor outputs include your eye movements, your head movements, your lanterns to create your voice, your motor output, pass distinct from your sensory input pathways and so there's a feedback between the two called the price of the feedback loop. Your incoming signals are for example helping your brain to adjust to your motor output signals on a moment by moment basis as you move your hands, feet, fingers, and you're paying attention to your motor movements as you move and modify them as needed to accomplish your goals in a very precise way. The motor outputs, branch, the motoroid branches, and incoming sensory nerves also extend to your lungs controlling movement but giving you feedback on this as your breathing and the status of your organs. Same your eyes. You see stuff but your motor your your, your, your, your motor outputs are controlling your eye movement. And there's there's a passive to feedback loop in your vision too. I described earlier that the timing of the post post traumatic side of the neural is going to do a back palpitational signal that's partially set by the side of the signal and there's also modification of that tying from other neurons through the up regulation down regulation of individual synapses. If you have the bidirectional synaptic plasticity and that includes back propagating signal that the synopsis from the post synaptic membrane to the pre synaptic membrane and vice versa. In summary, there are back propagating signals that synaptic signals that are coming from the post synaptic neural array backwards to the neural array by directional synonym plasticity helps modify with the neurotonic oscillation frequency is and how excited it were alert the neuron is incoming signals or how depressed it is and it helps either synchronize neurons setting the CH for LTP processes or new neural connections or desynchronized neurons which sets which might set the stage for LTD processes or the disintegration of connections between cells. Or brain regions. My argument in my work is that the physics of oscillations are helping to coordinate where and when the LTP and LTD processes are taking place. The basic concept is that if an LTD process is initiated a lower threshold of activity causes calcium. To to initiate one LT one of the two one of the plasticity processes. So, there's a paper paper here. It says, the role of calcium, cow module, and three forms of synaptic plasticity. Calcium influx into post synaptic dentric spines depending on circumstances can activate three forms of synaptic plasticity, long-term potentiation, short-term potentiation, and long-term depression. The post synaptic, calcium, concentrations that trigger all three forms of plasticity should have activate the alpha isom form anyway. So, it goes into more detail. But the point is that the the macro level oscillations are are the triggering event for these calcium influx variations than different different thresholds of calcium influx that will trigger different types of plasticity. Um so by directional synaptic plastics, you can can include signals that control backwards across the synaptic gap that either up or down regulating or up regulating the synaptic pattern which contributes to the frequency of the apical dendrite in one instance for for one example. Which is going to change the time of when the apical dendrite will send it back. We'll send a signal back the the back propagates to the Soma. And if it arrives at the summer at the same time as the basil and we might see a high phase of course potential. In other words, the sequence of burst firing that initiate that initiates a sharp wave ripple or a cascade of action potentials or an inhibitory waves. So, it's like the neuron with its branches and it's individually modified synapse represent part of a pattern. An idea is that the pattern is a Spartan distributed representation as rendered when the neuron output to its pattern through the exit terminal to other neurons, okay? The pattern in your mind is partially rendered when one neural sends its signals to the next neural array. You can imagine as a metaphor that the synapses are like piano keys and the dendritic branches are like musical organs and the someones are like bass drums. With the sound of each affecting or sound of each affecting the hole, shirts down that the organism both creates and experiences because your cells read the outputs of other cells. When you create your whatever you create whatever you create, you experience. Whatever you experience you create. When the neurons output to the next signal is a ray change when the neuron's output to the next signal is a rate change. The default tonic oscillation is that the neuron will fire regularly. The default Tonic Oscillation is the normal fire regularly. So, the rate change is is is is information So, I should I should rephrase that. Uh and and and the the regular tonic firing happens in the for example, theta frequency or the alpha frequency. There's there's several different tonic oscillations, right? Um when the neuron detects novel information, that novel information is represented with the phase rate change or an irregular spike or an inhibition or a phase or a phase rate bursting event. The tonic frequency firing or tonic or power band frequency could be 20 hertz, 40 hertz, 60 hertz, or or described as a theta alpha beta gamma. This is a duplicate from earlier. But despite the frequency of the point, the tonic firing is a regular pattern with low information. It serves as an attractor for synchronous oscillation to the brain processor, brains processors, or non clocks. The combined effect of up and down regulated synaptic connections results in determining when a neuron or a neuron cell or neuron cell assembly might shift its tonic oscillation to another paraben frequency which helps determine the relationships between large scale structures in the brain As groups of neurons tend to oscillate together but neurons can shift there. Associations between one oscillating group and another. The frequency tuning of a neuron and the tuning of a cell assembly is accomplished in part by posting empty potentials from other cells or inhibitory post anaptics potentials to to excite or inhibit parts of the cells membrane and after some threshold is then your eye can shift to a different tonic, oscillation frequency which means it now oscillates with the different cell assembly. Tonic oscillations are not random noise. They're precisely tuned to tractors for regulating neural activity. For regulating your mind. And the ground of being is not a chaotic mess. It's an organized formlessness. It's a shape of your experience. It's the shape of being someone or the shape of being someone or anything observed by the same process. While the while the tonic oscillation is like in the alphabet or beta band look like noise and ET measurements. The tonic oscillations in your default mode network are very precisely maintain south to south through synaptic configuration changes driven by faith web differentials between neural and race. The tonic oscillations are allowed to have low information value but they maintain precisely turned differential oscillating patterns. They represent memory trackers that guide your expectations and your behavior to seek new information. See this paper called here's called tuning neural synchronization. The role of variable oscillation frequencies in neural circuits. So and our quote from the paper. Beyond the small difference and gamma frequencies across cortical areas. Small differences in the preferred frequency can occur locally within the same cortical area. Again, our frequency gradient as a function of eccentricity, phobia to periphery, and via B1 has been established. And it is another quote. Beyond a small difference is a gamma frequencies. That's a schizophrenic part. Okay. I think I meant to put something else there. But anyway, so check that article out. This that that, that basically backs out what I backs up what I just said, that your tonic oscillations are not pink noise, which is what EEG medical imagers will tell you. They're very precise. and they represent your synaptic configurations. They represent the tractors that maintain that and synchronize your synaptic configurations. So, the the six-layer parent but they but they do have low information value. So, that's so that part is true because because the signals are very common and then it's they're synchronized. Um which is why I say the tonic oscillation represent emotions and the changes in the tonic oscillations represent changes in your emotions. So, the six-layer pra cells of the cortical column. So, send excitatory postanatic potentials via the to the to the to prime the second layer, second and third layer. Uh so, so read my notes on this paper called Neuroelectric Tuning. Uh Cortical Oscillation by April, apicaldendris, loop circuits. So, I dive in the sort of like back so I just said. The parametal cells in the cortic columns will receive signals to sort of prime the stoma to have a certain energy threshold that is more excited than the sensory inputs. Okay. I need to explain. So, the combined sensory inputs when combined with the level the sensory inputs from the from the dendrite, the base of dendrite. When combined with the side level of Soma activation, are more likely to trigger irregular action potentials or breast firing at a so on. Uh So that means so the Denver has to fill up a charge. And the summer has to fill up a charge. And the charge has to come in at the same time to trigger an action potential. And so if you have if you have neurons from the sixth layer that are sending excitatory postnatals back down to the Soma and the second and third layer. Then that increases the chances that neurons going to fire. In other words it's primed. Uh in a paramedical cell the interplay between dendritic branches of somatic somatic branches can up up regulate or down regulate the sensitivity of the sunlight to then dendritic signals. Increasing or decreasing the resistance to phase wave changes. Uh via the primary soma-based acting potential event. This is a fractal pattern of the up and down regulation of synaptic channels that might let sodium in or potassium out. Increasing or decreasing some portion of the dendritic branches sensitivity or resistance to incoming signals. So, if the dendrite is a microphone or a camera, metaphorically, we match that a synapses are doing carefully calibrated gain controlled sound. If the sound is too loud, it dials back at the receptivity. So, it can parts patterns from ladder noise. If the sound is too low, it dials up its voltage and is attention. To pars patterns from the quieter noise. So the amount of excitation of the Soma will make the neuron more sensitive to signals from the dendrite. And inhibition of the Soma would make the neuron less sensitive to signals and venturine. But individual receptors can also modulate their own sense of heat to incoming signals. So search for for reference to that search for A zero two seven two Z dot Spring. at at my at the Self Aware Networks Repo on the on the GitHub for the user V 5 MA, which is a software networks institute or you can follow this link right below. So, now, let's get excited. Their assignment goes up and they become more sensitive and more tuned in. Imagine when a person gets and the same thing like neurons can get depressed and when they're when their depression when their when their excitement level goes down, they become less sensitive or or less tuned in or tuned down. Uh so, imagine when a person gets motivated to buy some topic. When you get turned on, when you get turned to the idea of like eating food or playing a game or turning on to the idea of going somewhere. I'm going to go somewhere today. I'm going to go to the South End Rowing Club and get turned on but maybe maybe we're talking about food. You get turned on with a food and start thinking about food and it's like these excitation messages from excitatory post traumatic potentials from your circular prematal cells are turning the second and third layer of perimenal neurons that are in corticoms that are in that are in part synchronized, synchronously firing and communicating with cortico column assemblies which might consist of the parts of the of the default mode network and parts of the midbranch. This is the hippocampus and parts of the basal ganglia with the blocking communication from regions of the brain that are not in sync with their fruit, acquisition strategy. You start looking for food and thinking about food and your brain, there are physic births initiating sharp wave, purpose, and replay sequences of sensor modalities, flashes of sensory flares, sensory smells, sensory images of food in your eyes start to notice food if it's around you. Maybe you're thinking about chi sometimes I think about cheese. Imagine you start looking for cheese even on the unconscious level and you notice an ad for cheese on social media or you are walking around the grocery store and you get excited about cheese and start seeing cheese everywhere. I remember I was walking through Trader Joe's and a grocery store aisle that does not normally have cheese in it and suddenly I noticed that the can of dried Parmesan cheese. I noticed that you can't dried Parmesan cheese. Next to the soup. Why I didn't expect to find cheese? There's not a cheese aisle. It's a soup aisle but I noticed oh there's a Parmesan cheese. Stuck out to my brain because I've been thinking about cheese. but I ignored everything else on the show and I'm sure you heard the example because it was next to the cheese. I'm sure you've heard the example of blue cars. You start talking about blue cars, you start visualizing them and later on, you start noticing blue cars a lot when you go outside. Cuz you're thinking about them. The idea is that parts of your brain have become really good at recognizing the features of blue cars. These parts of your brain become up regulator, tuned up, or excited with a with a sanitary post synaptic potentials. At the summer So, that part of your brain is in the somatic branches. The part of your brain is sort of is sort of on the hunt for blue cars because it was excited by your preparatory thinking and in this way, which you practice thinking is the begin at the beginning of the day has a long-term has long-term background duration and printed in the Tonic Oscillation. It shapes the your results for the rest of the day. If you're thinking about blue cars, the inputs of your mind begin to refer the pattern of blue cars. The aggregate some of your excited enter neurons and excited cortical columns is distinct enough to produce a pattern of cars and the rendering of your mind but also distinct enough Utronic Oscillation patterns and then precise way to drive your expectations towards being alert to blue cars when they do appear in your receptor field. Thinking about something that's going to excite your unconscious expectations to be on on the lookout for that thing. You are setting your unconscious mind. You are encoding patterns into your precise tonic oscillations to be tuned into the things that fit the criteria that matches what you've been thinking about. So, if later in day you encounter something that you've been thinking about and your brain is going to do burst firing because you're set because your set expectations is tracked by a collide with your real-life pattern detections that's tracked by the basal damage, right and I'm losing tracking. And that's going to trigger burst, trigger burst firing that will initiate sharp wave ripples and sharp wave ripples are sequences of internal thoughts and external actions. In this process of imagining what you want to do before you do something is going to excite certain patterns be it configuration. A large configuration of cortical columns assembled or or neural assembly based patterns. Patterns emerging from brain structures that are selected unified to support what you want to do impart, or organized by Austin Tory Physics, turning brand regions into be in more sync with one another. And in part, they're select operation is is tuning out signals from oscitatory brain regions that are very far out of sync with the help of internal neurons that inhibit pathways between the regions that are far out of sync with one another. Essentially, the physics of the oscillation organizes your corporal calm assemblies and the relationships between the cerebral cortex and the parts of your mid brain including interactions between the basal gingley and the cerebral cortex, the hippocampus, and cerebral and the hippo and cerebral cortex. The physics of oscillation are the are physical oscillation are the organizing process behind which your brain brain areas are cooperating. The physics of oscillation the striving, the tuning of sync of of synchronization of is driving the turning that synchronizes cooperating brain areas and the physics of Oscillation is sinking with laminic inhibitory inter neurons to the activity of the parametal cells so the areas of your brain that are not in sync have their channels down regulated. so brain areas are not interfering with other brain areas. To restate this phase, to restate this. Phase different phase wave differential, physic burst, and sharp wave ripple patterns are assembled in past long brain regions that are in sync with one another across quarter and across the parts of the midbrain back and forth. The parts of your brain that are cooperating with are firing in the same tonic frequency power band range and while high amplitude, synchronized tonic frequency bands have low information value in the context of information theory. They serve as a very precise to track proceeds for neural oscillations that represent precise synaptic configurations that represent expectations that are manually set by high phrases burst or phase weight differentials or irregular action potentials or slow wave potentials. At the same time, brain areas that are not on the same frequency are ignored or blocked off because of inhibition. Because of inhibiting because of the inhibiting effects of inhibitory inter neurons that are part of the neuron network that connects most of the brain together. Thanks to inhibitory inter neons, you get selective blocks of cooperating green area that can specialize for the task you are focused on. Thanks to inhibitory inter neurons and oscillating oscillatory tuning, you get select patterns of neural ect activations from different columns that can represent or different brain areas that can represent different patterns like cars and houses and boats and cats. different neural patterns can play through your brain evoking different kinds of sensory renderings to your mind and this can happen because the the neural path of sequences that plays back in your brain is defined by inhibitor internal neuron gathergic firing. So, the firing in your brain produces patterns that can be modified in your brain real time, in real time through GABA urgent inhibit inhibitory firing which changes the neural path that your brain wave oscillates. changes your brain of oscillations. and the inhibitory intra neurons are in sync with the excitatory tuning of the sixth layer pyramidal cells rotted through the atlantic matrix and provide the feedback loop for your brain to self regulate its own internal patterns. Essentially, when you change how something looks in your imagination, the rendering in your imagination is being observed because it is a form or a model of something that is being that is passed through the Islamic feedback loop to the court of the and then your inhibitory inter neurons are changing what that that pattern your mind by changing the neural pathways that the oscillations travel which changes the patterns that your mind perceives when your eyes are closed and when your thoughts change, it is because your inhibitory intra neurons are inhibiting neural pathways and you're excited to worry posting active potentials or synchronizing the other pathways to reorganize your active brain into new functions that you carry out through the course of your day. Your mind consists of these synaptic configurations. A phase way of differentials, patterns that are changing individual time, the individual timing of oscillations and the of timing of different neural oscillations across cortical columns with different cordial columns and the widespread high magnitude or high amplitude tonic frequency firing. You have in your mind different configurations of oscillating, oscillating firing patterns across the brain that are coordinating through oscitory syndrome or differentiated with phase wave changes and coordinate with inhibitory internals, accomplishing through accomplished through bidirectional synaptic tuning mechanisms, namely, namely excitation and inhibition. Brain wave signals, brain wave signals are coordinated through synchronous firing, thanks to oscillatory physics and oscillatory firing also finds the signals that your whole brain across so that your whole brain can be combined into a single sensor transmitter system. So, the changes in brain activity, high phavic bursting, the phase of differentials, and the slow wave potentials are changing the regular tonic oscillatory firing by tiny amounts in particular. The sharp wave ripples are triggering cascades of inhibitory waves that result from each fired potential and it is the inhibitory waves that are changing the tonic oscillation patterns because those waves are the slower frequency, higher magnitude, also known as high amplitude, PEG waves. signals are coordinated through synchronous firing. Thanks to oscillatory physics and oscillatory firing also binds the signals so that the whole brain can be combined through a sensor transmitter system. The way the pattern physic burst rates change tonic firing. The way pattern, the way the pattern of physic birth rates change the tonic firing. The tonic firing which has a higher magnitude and lower frequency is the process in which your brain is detecting its own information. And the through which your brain is rendering its own information and the feedback loops in the structure of the brain allow the whole brain to reflect on the whole brain's renderings. So, the birth rates represent the rendered information of the mind and the tonic firing rates represent the cannabis to which the the rented information is rendered to. The canvas of your mind is the tonic firing rate that is changed by the burst firing rate which is the pen of your mind. The interplay between the pen of your mind and the canvas of your mind is shared by the whole mind through the process tonic firing absorbing the face of firing. So, it's like the pen, the paper, and the and the the paper absorbs the pen. The pen is this higher magnitude, lower frequency. I'm sorry, the paper is higher magnitude, lower frequency, and the pen is this higher frequency, lower magnitude. So, think about pen E. Penn Inc is higher is higher frequency, lower magnitude information. Your pant, your your mind notices ink more but it takes a less magnitude by area. Whereas paper is lower frequency. It just fades into the background. As a contrast of ink but has higher magnitude in terms of surface area. If you flip the color of the pen and ink so you have a silver pen and ink on black paper, you still have high frequency silver ink which is more noticeable but takes up less area. It's lower magnitude compared to the black paper which has a greater area, higher magnitude that is lower frequency and it serves as a backdrop for the ink to be in contact with. The point of the color swap between the ink and the paper was just to compare the reverse analogy to the anti potential or the DC potential, the slow rate potential, or the, or the SCP, the slow cortical potential assault in ways, which are like downward shifts in on in, in, in oscillation frequency from the tonic frequency. The, this, like, I'm sorry, there, this little cortico waves are like downward shifts. Uh, small downward shifts in Austin's inausitory. Um, and and the tonic frequency. There there basically the tonic frequency is is decreasing by something between you know, one to four hertz in degree and they last for milliseconds of seconds. and that would be the negative action potential which is a slow rate potential which is a temporary slowdown and the tonic oscillation pattern but that downshift and speed is going to be noticed by the canvas of your mind like the silver pen on black paper because of its irregularity. It's irregularity makes it stick out. It has iron it has higher information value in the in the in the in the context of information theory where where irregular or rare signals have higher information by it than common signals. So, what's interesting is that in your brain, when things are happening in real time, your memories are played in a forward sequence and when you think about memories that are in the past. Those memories are played in a backward sequence. I arrived at this concept listening to a video lecture call titled preconfigured dynamics of of in our brains Uh by the brain and behavior research foundation, the lecture was titled brain in the Body. mental function, sleep, and obesity. By by prison. Essentially, a sharp wave ripple plays out three times. First, it plays out Yuri Basaki, I think. It plays out really fast, maybe a 200 hertz, and then it plays out at the behavioral time scale when you or the orgasm plays out that pattern in real life, his actions, it's going to pattern is repeating but more slowly. So first, it was really fast at 200 hertz. And then it, then you acted out and it's more slow, and the, the same exact pattern of narrow firing happens again, it could be a 200 hertz again, but this time it's going to, Um playback backwards. So, that's the third step I need to fix this paragraph a little bit. So, it's good to know. So, when you, so, when you do something, the next paragraph explains better. When you do something, you you first apply the pattern of what you're going to do in your mind really fast. So, that that happens maybe a 200 hertz and then you do it and the same action sequence repeats but then, at a slow rate and then, you remember that you did it because your mind plays back the same sequence back after you do it. Um and it plays back really fast. Backwards. And I think the backwards playback is sort of how your mind encodes events that belong to the past. It makes intuitive sense because when we see with medical imaging, we can see with medical imaging the same pattern that you thought about was turned to an action that you that you the same pattern you thought about turning to an action that you thought about. After the action wasn't the first step played in reverse. Yeah, I need to rephrase this. Um it's a past event played in reverse and so in theory, when you're thinking about past events, your mind is playing back sequences in the reverse order and maybe that's the key, the distinction between the past and future. is that this is a past memory. That's why it's like playing, it's playing back, backwards. So, think about that. When you think about the past, are you thinking about your past in in reverse? I don't know. So, that's just that's, that's the idea that's contextual. to recap, when you, when you're about to do something, you think about it, you think about what you're going to do really fast and the neural coral stuff that happen really fast but then you do it and when you do it, the neural qualities of what you're doing happen much more slowly on a behavioral time scale and then, after you do it, you get this receipt and the receipt is the neural cordless of that same action sequence are played back in in a rush really fast. That's a medical imaging shows us. Okay. So definitely I'm going to clean up that text a little bit. Basically the narrow path represents the task. We think about how the path. Is this the same thing again? Alright, let's get down to I think repeat, I repeated the same thing like five times. So, at a higher scale beyond cortical columns, there are sequences Um so, this firing sequence happens inside quarter columns that are the coincidentally firing sequences inside other cortical columns and at a higher scale beyond cortical coms or sequences across cortico columns and across other brain areas. This computation of the brain is a temporal spatial phase differential firing sequence. This or sorry, the computation of the brand, the computation of the brain is a temporal spatial differential firing sequence. Brain computation is a stiff, wise, non-linear, or cluster summation of inputs via the consideration of charges which become weighed when charges exceed thresholds. These thresholds are defined by morphology of the neuron. And it's synaptic configuration both in terms of ground synaptic connections and in terms of the live status or frequency of those synaptic connections. Neurons will adapt to grow to the that they are getting because this causes the preference of certain patterns but this also shapes narrow paths in the past of oscillations that define your experience of being someone somewhere in some place with some ecosystem of items, objects, things, and concepts as well as the as well as the experiences of other people and animals. So, when neurons grow and form long-term memories, this ulcer shapes the path along which signals will travel which shapes your mental models. Shaping the preference of how signals will travel. So, long-term changes are happening to your brain on the individual synapse scale and this leads to changes at the neural level at the neural array level, the neural circuit, and edge community level at the mini column and cortical column scale and at the assembly with other oscillating cell assemblies at the membrane scale. IE network wide brain activity scale. The network of the brain is a network of individual neuronal computation that is network together and feedback loops with excitatory inhibitory messages to translate spatial patterns into temporal patterns into changes in neural pathways. The tomographically stitch together the outputs are face differential renderings that the mind makes in oscillates into a picture that your mind perceives. The brain is a network of individual neuron computations that work together in a modular network of interchangeable nodes that shift their configuration to create new patterns of brain activity that specialize in the various kinds of task that you might execute in your day to day experience of life. the brain is a network of individual and there are no competitions, network together, and feedback loops with excitatory, inhibitory messages to translate the spatial patterns into temporal patterns, into changes, into neural pathways, and did I say that twice? together the Top and Graphics together, the outputs of phase wave differential renderings that the mind makes nauseous and to picture the emphasis. Okay, that's the we're near at the end. Let's get this, let's get the, let's get the end. The brains and network managers are doing competitions that work together. Uh and a modular network of inter interchangeable nodes, a shifter configuration to create new patterns of brain activity. I specialize in various kinds of tasks. You might execute, you need to experience of life. Your brain activity can selectively work together to experience and play out mental sequences that correlate with your physical actions. and drives both cooperation between between brain areas. Manifest itself til we get to Right. And I see if I can find a quiet spot real quick just to finish this. Okay. So, your brain activity can selectively work together to experience impaired mental sequences according to physical actions. We're almost done. Also, the drives both cooperation and brain between brain areas and inhibition between out of phase brain areas resulting in a vast array of cross-phase differential pattern configurations. Configurations that playback combinations of learned patterns that result in learned sequences of behavior, learn sequences of behaviors that Connect to rewards in the environment. Rewards that are continually modified to drive new consequences or new rewards which is also a type of consequence. Wars and penalties are both consequences. The basically new consequences also change the large configurations and learned playback sequences that play across their brain rendering your mind and your actions. As an organism navigates the environment with this neural computation that I've coined neural away Projection Oscillation Tomography. The development there I learned. Near pathways and learned brain configurations. Continues in perpetuity throughout your lifespan. Throughout your lifespan. And yeah. That's basically it.