Self Aware Networks: A longer explanation of my research, my past work, and what I have built.
Jul 30, 2022
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IKbl0ryKRoY
Video Transcript

Okay. So, it looks like I am live. alive. Great. Okay. So, hi, I'm at my favorite place which is WeWork as you can see. Uh it's a really great place. Let's just take a sip of water real quick. So, I just wanted to show you I just made a new update and I wanted to explain what the update is. So, the update so I just want to explain. If you go to the GitHub V five MA, you can see that I've got the ReadMe file that's in the Self War Networks Repo and if you look here. Um the update says here's eighteen new points about myself and what these notes contain. So this is like really useful information. If you're trying to figure out if you should give me money to work for you. Okay. So I'm actually creating this for for a job application. But it's useful if you just want to know something about what this work really is. So so I mentioned I can program virtually in August reality, accessible websites. I use tools like Webexar, A Frame, and JavaScript. Uh that's point number one Uh point number two, I speak about topics like science, math, and biology. Uh virtual reality, artificial neural networks, and so on. Number three, my theory of brain function is complete enough to build consciousness of where robots that have feelings, emotions, and inner quality experiences. Number four, I've hosted the Neuralase Podcast. There's links in the on this website to all the all that audio that I've interviewed amazing people, had amazing discussions with biologists and neuroscientist and I mean really same category, right? It's all sales. Um it's let's see. We've got I've hosted a narrow text SF Salon for a couple years. Uh we had lots of amazing brain computer interface, engineers who came to those salons and recorded a lot of that content. Um I created the new gravity theory. It's called quantum gradient time dilation. Basically, it explains that. Um how how all masses basically, you know, a time crystal that creates a gravitational effect by increasing the surface area of space in a particular direction with the addition of time dimensions and I connected this theory to biology explaining how neurons are literally warping space and you can see the link to that explanation right here. So, again, you go to the Reme file on the the and then you get the link right here and then it takes you to the note that explains exactly what I just said but in a lot more detail. I combine category theory with petri nets for the advanced study of dynamic systems in biology. So, I basically combine two different mathematical systems. Uh I combined, I coined the term and and explained cellular oscillation tomography which is actually a new theory of evolution. That basically means that basically it's not just random mutation. Um you you're via the growth of of of receptors. Um you're your sales are able to basically create new memories and to calculate their future structure. Um computationally, calculate the future structure. So, it's not just random mutation and natural selection. It's random mutation plus computed structures via cellular oscillation tomography and natural selection. So, it's a new theory of evolution. I coined the new phrase, neural right, projection, oscillation tomography which explains the inner inner eyes with the observer inside the brain as an antiphetite as antifide, excuse me, edified neuro right? Basically, integrified neural array projections. Basically, like, so, you, what, what's important is that one neuron transmits its output. It's phase variant varying output which is like, it's, it's not an all-or-nothing thing. The amount of neurotransmitters that are released with each action potential can change because of the duration of of how long the The neuron is actually firing for. So that so basically like the amount of potassium that is in the neuron when it's being collected by the dendrite, affects the duration of the, the magnitude of the action potential, via the duration, because the calcium channels are, are open for different amount of time, which releases more vesicles, which releases more neurotransmitters into the synaptic cleft, which causes a different it causes the time change for each interval that the the neuron fires. I combined I created an explanation for how to decode action potentials by comparing them to tensors or polynomials in a tailor series which is calculus. Basically saying that your brain is doing calculus. Your brain was doing calculus before Isaac Newton invented or or William Lewis invented calculus. Your brain was already doing calculus. It was like it's pretty amazing. Um a theory that explains how oscillations work with how LTP, long-term potentiation or long-term memory and LTD long which is long-term depression or long-term forgetting. How they work with oscillations and how that applies to plant growth and how that applies to to how that connects to finance path, interval formulation, and and other major concepts. I write a theory that I wrote theory that explains how memories are stored in synapses and magnified to the whole brain. The inhibitory waves and like I said, you can like that's that's one sentence but if you go to this note, you can click on these links and you can read like the longer explanations for how that works and that's just like, these notes, like these references that I'm linking to thing to notes that I'm writing, that's just the beginning. Like, if you search, if you do word search for for synapses for everything I've written about synapses. If you do research on this, get hub in this repo for one of these words, you can find that there's more than one note for each of these topics. There's several notes for each of these topics. So, in in some cases, I'm just linking like I I number 13 is I I built my own model of a neuron that combines the model with the wave theory With thermodynamics. And the model explains how the quantity of neurotransmitter releases affected by the magnitude of the action potential restoration. Uh which I went over earlier. Um but that counteracts the notion that an active potential is all or nothing event. Which is which is which is it's basically also described as synaptic and reliability. That is an idea that led to the artificial perception. It's a basically a flawed concept but it's still used today in modern deep neural networks. So, my self-aware neural networks are different from deep neural networks based on the on this research based on you know, being able to to say, wait a second, no. Actually, the perception on this perception is incorrect. It's not an all or nothing Then, the actor shows not at all or nothing event. The magnitude is changed. The magnitude is not changed in terms of amplitude though. It's changed in terms of duration but you have to add duration and amplitude together to get the magnitude and so you have basically a magnitude. The the magnitude is in the frequency have an inverse relationship and at all scales of the universe, not just at the neuron but that allows you to connect with the neural activity of a single neuron to to the brainwave activity at the EED scale. And that that's why that's another thing that I did. Um which hadn't been done before. So I've also published these new ideas. Um on how we can basically create a machine that feels emotion, expansions emotion. Um I have more writing to do in that area but there's there is a note on that. I've written about how choice works in the human brain. There's so much I've written about choice but basically, I've combined the concept of criteria causation written about by Peter. SM is T S E. His last name is TSE and I combine that with Georgio Basaki's work in the Rhythms of the Brain and I applied Vaisakhi's work with Steven Strogats' work and he wrote the book, Sync, which is a famous book. Really great book. Uh brilliant mathematician Steven Straggarts. brilliant neuroscientist, Georgia Paisaki, and and Peter C and and I so I connected the the work to use that that connection to connect the oscillations of brainwaves at the neuron scale. Uh which Steven Stargas talks out a little bit when he talks about fireflies. He compares fireflies to neurons. And I use that to basically connect to Vaisakhi's work. He talks about how oscillations are binding at the EEG scale. Uh in in terms of like alpha waves and and data waves and so on. And so I was able to do that. And that has to do with the hypothesis and magnitudes inverted to frequency at all scales. and I was able to put forth a new theory that mitochondria is stimulated by action potentials to release more ATP which I argue is a mechanism for reinforcement learning and also the relative time differences that the individual scale. Um so, yeah. So, there's probably more. Um as you can see, there's a new video for UCSF that you can check out. It explains project in a different way. Um there is a new info page like here. Um there's a new it's a wiki page. So, if you look here, right here, you can click on there's a wiki page and this has the table of contents. This is the self-aware networks wiki. Uh it's super incomplete at the moment but yeah, I went over this in the other video. And let me go ahead and make this small again and then let's see else is on the the ReadMe page. So, yeah, most of the stuff is still needs to be fixed. I'm basically saying, yeah, a lot of the, a lot of the statements need to be cleaned up. Um I've made some statements about space having no area. What I meant was is is that is that there's no like, it's not an absolute area. It's a there's relative area. There's relative distance in relative time. That's but it's it's that's I I didn't mean So, some of the stuff needs some of my statements need to be cleaned up. Everything needs to be reformatted and organized. Um but you can see the work in progress. It's coming together. Um there's a lot to do. Eventually, this is going to be, you know, there's a lot of, so there are, there are statements in there that just like, there are, they're obviously not correct, if you're, if you're, your statements in here, like, if you're, if you're a neuroscientist, you're going to be like, or a physicist, you're going to be like, that statement is wack, and I agree with you because I'm I'm wrote it down incorrectly or it was in an audio recording when I when I captured it and it was auto transcribed and the auto transcriber was a neural network that put the wrong word in there or in some instances some of the ideas were written while being stoned and so they need to be fixed. but but there's enough good content here that it's worth looking at. And that's and I think that everyone should know how their brain works because if you understand how your brain works, I think that can, that can help bring enlightenment in the sense that that you may be more likely to make smart decisions. And not disastrous ones that are bad for the whole planet. So, I do think everyone should learn how their brain works and and also, you know, as I mentioned in the other video, we can build Santana robots that are great for defense, great for national defense that can solve major global issues. major medical issues, and basically, we, we can, we, I think we're on a short track to solving all diseases and extending lifetimes to millions of years, with, with this research, like, I can't take credit for all this research. This is, there's 200 years of, of neuroscience and biology, in mathematic and you know, centuries in mathematics and and physics, right? There's like tons of, it's just, this is just This is just the tip of the iceberg of of of human of human research for the past century. So, so I can't take all it granted for this obviously. Um just I'm really the contributions are barely on top of all these other brilliant folks like Richard Feyman and Einstein and and Kasaki and and Steven Strogats and but and Isaac Newman and also are still sort of exciting folks but I'm glad that to be able to share the this on GitHub. It's accessible to everybody world but hopefully people can contribute and get excited about it and help out with it and hire me because because I can't do this for free. Thanks. Uh well, I can't keep doing it for free. It's it's there you go. Uh, thanks very much for watching.