=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: a0262y He was talking about IQ Military Ability
First recorded: 2021-06-23T05:24:48.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/b203cd62-305f-4583-9774-d1a8c4859071
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
They discovered that there was no correlation.
Yeah, right, here's Jensen in his book, The G Factor, The Science of Mental Ability.
These measures of learning indeed had surprisingly low correlations with IQ, especially when gain scores were used.
In some studies, there was even a negative correlation between gain scores and IQ.
Okay, so what did they do?
They took gain scores out of their IQ tests.
So now IQ doesn't measure gain scores.
Gain scores? Sorry, Jensen, gain scores means exactly what?
The range of learning.
He says the correlation between the gain score measure of learning ability and IQ is spurious, they decided.
So they, they, they, so, and so it's interesting because in the middle of the century, in the middle of last century,
IQ metricians had this really lucrative business advising the military and in fact, you know, IQ is this massive industry because our military recruits get IQ tests.
And so that's why you've got like such spectacular, you know, like, it's the, it is the psychological instrument that's being performed the most everywhere in the world or also longitudinally.
So it's actually kind of a pretty spectacular, uh, uh, uh, massive dataset to inspect.
But Sean, let me just follow up on that.
So in the context of army, they, they, you get an IQ test.
If you don't hit some threshold, you just don't get in.
Um, it's my understanding for the, for the primary reason for why you would take the test at all.
It's like to qualify or not, not exclusively the other things of course, but then I would imagine that the military would be highly interested in research that would point to, well, that's not that helpful.
Like if there was like hard data, I'm talking about giving, giving the amount of money the U S for example, spends on the military and the investments on the rest of it.
If there was an alternative shorthand test and measure that were superior to IQ, presumably they would adopt that as in their own interest to do that because they want the best outcomes.
So, so, so, so, so like, okay, it's course, maybe it's, it's high level, but it's functional enough for the purposes.
Isn't this a switch?
No, no, the point is, no, it's not.
So, so why, why was the military, um, so interested in this, you know, why, why did they hire these people to do all this research?
It's because they want to know who should go for officer training because there's all these different tiers, right?
And you want to know who gets the expensive training and, uh, who doesn't.
And, um, so that was the, so, I mean, they have their, their, their cutoff for entry.
But this, if you, if you see an IQ score as a measure of the environment that you have experienced up until now, causing you to, you know, gain more or less skill along different dimensions,
than as some kind of essential measure of some kind of mystical and fixed, uh, uh, characteristic of your brain,
then a whole lot of things become completely explicable.
For example, um, you move children from a, uh, uh, uh, low-income families.
But my point is, it's not the military's job to sort that problem out.
That, that's something that society at large can go and figure out.
They're, they're most interested.
It's not, it's not their job to sort that out.
But that would be the use of an IQ test to decide who gets in.
Right.
Because they want people that are capable, can follow rules accurately, learn stuff at a reasonable rate.
They just don't want inefficient resources to enter the system, which.
Exactly.
Which, right.
Okay, but that doesn't make it wrong, right?
That's just like.
No, I'm not saying, no, no, no, no.
Okay, I'm saying that there's two different uses of the IQ test.
There's the IQ test for who gets in.
And that's, seems completely reasonable.
Um, because as you say, I mean, you, you can't go back in time and change the, the, the childhood experiences of someone.
And so you've got to decide who gets in and who doesn't.
But then there's this whole other purpose of an IQ test, which is to decide who gets officer training.
But that's the, the reason that, um, you know, Ackerman and others were hired by the military to construct these tests to figure out who should get officer.
And, um, and that to us was kind of fantastic, uh, data because it meant that, um, these people were financially powerfully incentivized to prove, you know, to find any and all ways to demonstrate the effectiveness of their ways of predicting the rate of learning.
Right.
So, like, the IQ test when you get in is just predicting how much you learned up until now.
Um, whereas the IQ test to decide who gets officer training is supposed to predict how fast you will learn from now, from now onwards.
Right.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, yeah, no, it does.
And I wasn't aware, actually, that it was used for that secondary purpose.
So, that's interesting.
Yeah, so that, that's the kind of really fascinating, uh, uh, uh, thing to us.
And that was why, you know, we kind of glommed onto this research back in 2010 when we were starting to kind of ask questions about all this.
Because, um, we wanted to kind of find data from, from the people who were different from the Anders Ericsson crowd.
You know, the Anders Ericsson crowd were the ones who kind of reached the same level as you are.
Indistinguishable.
Some kind of convergence in the aggregate.
There are also people that are way outside.
But putting aside their emotional intelligence, which isn't to identify them, it's relative to the general population.
And accounted for, like, what's the applicant, do you understand what I'm getting at, Sean?
There's, like, something else there that isn't captured.
