=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0004y Multiscale patterns
First recorded: 2022-02-24T11:00:02.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/30aa7ee6-da5c-4c04-9005-69e91c46a6b3
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So add this to my book, I know how neural networks work, artificial neural networks, and how real 3D human neural networks work. And I know the differences between the two.
Human beings are essentially organic robots. The activity of retrieving a memory strengthens it. And so in the strength, in the retrieval of a memory, new protein senses this happens. Not just in the creation of a memory, but also in the retrieval of a memory.
Because the process of retrieving the memory strengthens the memory. All of the, the memory consists of all of the, uh, of, the memory consists of a temporal-spatial sequence that the entire oscillation is learned.
And then any of the neurons in that oscillation can play back. Because they are, any of the neurons in that oscillation that have learned that pattern can play back, uh, that pattern.
But there's going to be, I think, because the pattern, because the pattern was learned by all of them, but it scaled, it started scaling up from the point of that oscillation before eventually, uh, um, interfacing with the rest of the oscillations of, of the brain.
But, but, but in a more scaled-up way. So that it would, so that you have the recognition of patterns at different scales. Um, at the point that a pattern occurs, it's at the level of a single neuron firing.
And then as it scales to the local circuit, um, it scales again, it's basically repeated again in the cortical column, and then repeated again on a larger scale, and then repeated again, uh, you know, by the, by the whole brain.
But it's sort of like, because it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's a, it's a signal, it's a signal that's represented, uh, by a combination of, of, um, um, frequency and time-based codes.
Uh, the, uh, the frequency and time-based codes, um, that have, that create phase changes in different, um, to the, to the existing oscillation pattern, and the phase changes change the phase pattern.
So every, so, um, so every time a signal is received, um, it, it changes what was there, what was, what was, like, basically the standing, the previous, it changes the previous pattern that was, that was, that was repeating in that area.
And that's how the brain is, um, combining what was previously learned with what's, with what's new, um, is because the brain is essentially repeating an oscillation pattern that was, that was the, the tape of the previous learnings, right?
And then those collide with the sensory inputs, the new learnings.
And those changes, the changes to the old learnings, to the old oscillations, um, are how the system absorbs reality in a collective way that is, is tracked, uh, from both the individual scale through the collective scale.
And, uh, in their recognition that the micro patterns become macro patterns, become multi-scale patterns, the recognition that patterns have multiple scales, like, it's like, I don't know, I've, I think of the Alice in Wonderland when she tries the shrums and she, like, has a sort of, like, spatial disassociation.
I've felt on occasion, sort of like, I can't figure out what's bigger, is my head bigger, or, like, you know, have you ever had, like, do you feel like you're really huge inside your head, or maybe you're really small inside your head, like, you play with size and dimension, and imagine that, you know, all of a sudden, like, the entire universe is, like, filled with your head.
Your head is so freaking big, right? You know, or play with the idea that it's, it's, your head is really tall, tiny, and the whole universe is, like, you can feel the whole universe.
Your head is, like, this little tiny dot, and it's, like, so freaking tiny, that it's, like, even, like, this entire solar system is super tiny, and so you're, like, this ultra-tiny thing, because you're at the scale of the whole cosmos, right?
You're imagining the whole visible cosmos down, it's, like, so freaking tiny, and there's so much, like, around it, right?
That's an interesting, it's, like, you play, say, I'm just playing this scale, like, and then you take that area and shrink that down, and then take that area and shrink that down.
So, take that, so take that area that's the size of the whole universe that you can imagine, and shrink it down to the size of the marble.
Here again.
So, imagine that the neuron has a megaphone with a microphone, a microphone for listening, so you have all this, you have, it's listening to a whole bunch of different things, but then condensing everything that it's listening to, into the,
into the, into the frequency and duration of the action potential, but then magnifying out, like a speaker, the frequency and amplitude to all of its connections.
So, um, its connections are, um, listening to, uh, a frequency and amplitude of the pattern that is, that that connection represents.
So, that connection represents, uh, a network of, uh, it represents, it's like, it's like, it's like that pattern, it represents features, right?
So, it can fire with different features, right?
But it's, but it's only gonna, but it's not gonna contain the whole feature, like, basically the feature is contained in the network,
and the network is triggered when a certain sequence is, happens, right?
So, it's, it's like, um, the memory is stored at the micro-scale at the individual neuron, right?
But it's only deduced by the tomographic reconstruction of the signal path triggered by the memory in that neuron.
So, what that neuron is gonna trigger, right, it's gonna, that neuron is gonna trigger,
it's gonna magnify a signal to a whole group of neurons.
Right?
And then, the collective action of that group of neurons is gonna represent the magnified signal
of the single neuron with its connections.
Right?
So, it's retrieving a memory from a neuron that stores the memory as its own connections.
And then, the, the, the memory is restored when all of those connections are bumped
by the axon terminal connection to the neuron that fired.
So, all of the, all of their, all of their timing is bumped in a way that a lot, that it basically evokes
the restoration of the memory that is stored as the connections, as the learned connections.
Right?
So, that's how our memory is, is restored into consciousness.
But then, that bump, um, keeps on magnifying, like, like, like, another part of the brain
will read that bump.
Like, those neurons, that, or the ones that fired, right?
So, there's, so, the ones that fired from that sequence, from that learned sequence, right?
So, there's another stage of a learned pattern that gets played after that.
Right?
And so, there are subsequent bumps.
And so, it's like, yeah, so there's a sequence that gets played out at a higher level, which
is multiple, which is, which is a sequence of multiple different oscillatory networks that
are firing in phase sequence.
And so, right, so, um, one pattern appears in this bunch of neurons, and this, the next
part of that pattern appears in another bunch of neurons.
And there's a cycle through the brain where, basically, you have neurons that are, that are
firing in large groups, uh, sorry, that are receiving bumps in large groups.
And that is triggering certain other neurons to fire.
And those are creating, um, and the sequence, the sequence that fires, um, that's created
is, um, uh, the, sort of, there's a, a firing sequence that's sort of represented in the
network, uh, by all the things that are bumped or sensed physically, like the physical sensation
of, of, of what, of the sequence that is fired is felt by all the neurons that are connected
to it.
Right?
And that's how the brain sees its own patterns.
Um, because you have a sequence of networks that are firing that are representing learned
patterns as the learned connections that are bumping the, that are bumping the network in
a way that is, uh, detectable, because those neurons that were bumped are going to oscillate
anyway, but now they're going to oscillate to a different, um, to, out of, out of frequency.
Like, that group is going to oscillate in a new frequency.
And the new frequency is defined by the patterns that bumped it.
Um, and so the patterns that are, exist at a micro scale are magnified to the macro scale.
And that, that, um...
