=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0001y All life contains metals
First recorded: 2022-02-16T04:27:09.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/4c285e6d-c0f7-4da8-b739-e9ef87ba053c
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
All life is, contains metals. Sodium, potassium, magnesium, calcium, and so on. These things are metals on the periodic table of contents.
And, uh, they allow, the exchange of these metals allows organisms to conduct electricity. Right? You can't do that. You can't, like, try doing that without metals. That's a different kind of challenge. Right?
And so, we ought to think about the fact that organisms conduct metals, uh, I'm sorry, that organisms use metal to conduct electricity to run, uh, something that is, is like a neural network process. Right?
Some sort of neural networking-like computation. But we ought to think about this in a similar way that we think about, uh, how shall I say this? Uh, like mitochondria.
So, mitochondria are bacteria that are not, it's not a human bacteria. I mean, it's, it's a human symbiote. But it's not a, it's not, uh, it's DNA is bacteria. It's not human.
Right? Right? But it's symbiotic with the human being. There's, there's, uh, mitochondria in every, every cell of the human body. It helps us to produce more energy than we could otherwise.
So, there's a beneficial relationship between, uh, this object, mitochondria, and the other cells, and the cells of the human body.
Um, in that mitochondria is inside the cells of the human body.
But there's also a beneficial relationship between these, uh, neural networks, which are enabled by electricity,
which are enabled by the fact that cells, uh, carry this metal, and it move this metal around.
And this allows this computation to happen, right?
This allows the energy of this computation to, to, to happen, or is part of the process.
And there's a beneficial relationship between these neural networks and cells.
Or between the neural, the neural networks and organisms.
And so, uh, uh, you know, evolution, uh, has, uh, has gone down the path of saying,
yes, we want more metals, more neural networks made out of neurons and glial cells,
more brains, more hearts, more organs, more bodies, more skin, more eyes, more ears, etc.
This is the path that evolution walked, and it brought us to us here.
But the idea is that we have neural, that organisms evolved neural networks, uh,
in the same way that organism, that human, human beings evolved the relationship with mitochondria.
This, uh, this, uh, perhaps, um, accidental start of organisms integrating metals,
and then those metals conducting, uh, signals, or, uh, being part of the, uh, process of,
of the functioning of the human brain.
And these, these, uh, this is like, think of it as a, as a, as a neural network,
as a, as having a symbiotic relationship with the human being, or with the animal.
And so humans have really, really fancy neural networks and glial cell networks compared to,
say, mice.
So, uh, in, in, in some cases, evolution led animals to become mice,
and some, in some cases, evolution led to human beings.
Well, but human, human, human neurons and, and glial cells are fancy,
uh, compared to what other, compared to what mice have.
And, and, uh, but see it as, over the eons of evolution,
there was a progression that led to...
...
