=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0016y interesting conversation with Anna
First recorded: 2022-01-22T08:51:09.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/5bcc27f8-2da9-4ba2-8b33-9a9b62eabb82
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So, Anna Chaley told me this story. She said,
I just said, that some existence, one consciousness can have different bodies, body as an avatar, and all this body just resting in the cup, so some conscious can pick anybody for today, for a week, like, oh, this body needs some rest or generation, generation, and then I use the whole body or man body.
Like, we could swap. Like, we could swap. We could change.
Right. Yeah.
If it's your, so, this body, basically, like, your computer.
Your computer that can separate from the body, right?
It's not necessary to be connected to the body, but it is, like, able to select any body that you want.
Oh, no. I think, I think different. Wow.
So, you have, I mean, like, you have, like, a selection. Like, you can print, you can print any kind of body.
Yeah.
Because, like, all the types of bodies are stored, like, like, we have artificial neural networks that invent new bodies, and you can pick from any of them.
And so, there's, like, infinite amounts of bodies to choose from.
You pick the ones you want, they print it up for you, you get in that body, you're that person.
But you could download memories for that person.
Oh, memories.
So, you could become that person.
And the voice.
Yeah. You could change your, you could change your way, you could sort of let yourself in any way.
Change your mind, if you want.
Change your mind is most creative.
Yeah.
The way how you think.
Yeah, yeah.
And I believe it's conscious. What is conscious then?
I already changed my mind. Like, I already do it. Like, I know how.
You know how.
Yeah, I know how.
What's that mean?
I know how to change my mind any way I want.
Okay.
Yeah.
Okay, so, like, everything you're thinking is an oscillation.
It's a vibrating pattern.
Yeah.
Everything.
That your brain is doing.
Yeah.
In order to recognize it, it's making that pattern.
Right?
Yeah.
So, it's kind of like, you have to, like, if you, like, let's say someone is addictive, right?
They have an addictive brain pattern.
So, the same patterns are occurring over and over again.
In correlation with their addiction.
Okay?
If they can recognize that pattern and say, like, this is what they do for people who have OCD.
They say, I want you to think about the fact that what you're doing right now, that is actually OCD.
And that means there's a part of your brain that's misfiring.
And when you can do neurofeedback and you can show people, you see that on the data?
That is what OCD, you know, looks like.
Your brain is misfiring when you're having an OCD episode.
When you're doing something weird.
Right?
And if you pay attention to that, you can self-regulate it.
You can regulate your own.
If you're able to become aware of how you're doing what you're doing.
It's important to be aware.
When you expand your awareness, you give yourself more agency.
More choice.
Right?
When you expand your awareness of what you're doing and how you're doing it, you're able to change what you're doing.
Luke, I...
It's like...
What behavior?
Okay, okay, okay.
Okay, fine.
So just realize that the reason that keeps happening is because your cells are repeating the same oscillations over and over again.
Everything you do...
It's like my parents want to...
Yeah.
It's the same...
You're experiencing the pattern in your real life.
There's a correlated pattern in your brain activity.
Like, doot, doot, doot, doot.
It's happening every time you're doing that thing.
And if you become aware of that, you're like, oh, my brain is doing that thing.
Again, then you can...
Well, you have to kind of like...
It's more useful to like...
It can be useful to like do neurofeedback.
Like to go to a neurofeedback practitioner.
And like watch...
Like pay attention to your own brain waves.
And like...
Or look at yourself in the mirror.
What is...
When you meditate.
It's the same principle as like Zen Buddhism.
Like when you like...
If you sit with awareness, right?
If you're just aware of all your patterns.
Like let's say you're...
You're in the ocean, okay?
And you're sitting with all your patterns.
If you can notice that when you're doing something like picking your lip.
If you can notice that.
If you can notice you can think.
Okay, there's some sort of electrical pattern that's happening every time I'm doing this.
That's makes me feel good.
In my brain.
That makes me feel good, right?
Yeah.
And you recognize it.
And you just think about it.
And the more you become aware of it, the more you'll figure out how to turn it off.
You need to become aware of it to the point that this is not serving me.
This is like...
You just got to keep thinking about it.
And that will grow your awareness around it.
It's called the action to perception cycle.
When you perceive something, your perception of it...
Like when you're thinking about something.
Perception is like...
I notice this is here.
Therefore, I am perceiving it.
If I notice something, I'm perceiving it.
If I don't notice it, I'm not perceiving it.
Right?
For the second...
Like...
Now I'm perceiving it.
Because I notice it.
Right?
That's perception.
You get it.
Okay?
This was my question before all these avatars.
Basically, it's about...
Yeah.
Oh, you were...
Okay, so you were saying that people can have different bodies.
We were saying...
And then they could 3D print whatever body they want.
But you have different bodies that you can choose from.
So a guy...
Or you could be a guy one day.
What's interesting here to have experience go...
As your own community...
As a man...
That's something you want, like, to be a...
To try to experience that?
No, I'm just trying to imagine.
So imagine some community that...
Oh.
With abilities like this always change your body.
And you're coming to your community and you're not recognizing each other.
Right.
Right?
It's like...
It's always new stranger.
Right.
And if you...
Because if you can change your mind.
If you understand that you can change your mind.
Right?
Like...
But if...
Okay, so imagine, like...
You have to, like...
So Zen...
So learning to meditate is hard for many people, right?
It's like...
There are some really excellent thinking.
But some people are fact-resistant.
They...
You know?
Like, they just can't...
They're at a threshold in their mental state...
Where they can't accept new information from people who are outside their...
Sort of...
Circle.
Outside of their culture.
Because they're just not...
Tuned in...
To the same reality.
Right?
I got lost in my own museum.
I got lost in my...
My train of thought.
I was like, what are we talking about?
Sorry.
I have my grandma's blanket.
I am good.
You're good.
Okay.
Let me get my...
Let me get...
Let me get that in here.
That one's yours.
And then...
Take my lighter.
You have your own lighter.
Let's see.
Turn off my recorder.
