=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0038y Artificial Neurology 1-2
First recorded: 2021-12-26T20:07:19.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/71223ecf-94c0-4679-b46e-8ff3fb064592
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
We need a guidebook for when an artificial neural network becomes conscious.
So I mentioned that I spotted an artificial neural network that looks like it has my criteria for what it takes for a machine to become conscious, but that without my theory, they probably have no idea what they have.
And then I didn't tell anybody that I was talking about which neural network.
But the point is that I think that maybe I should make as another argument in my book, instead of like, I was thinking of concluding the book on the point that David Eagleman made, which is the future is healthcare system that converges with the Justice Department.
And I, that was his conclusion, right?
And I think I do want to share that conclusion in part, but more importantly, I have a conclusion that says, well, wait a second.
We need to put out a theory there that helps researchers understand what they're doing so that we can shape artificial neurology the right way.
And that means that we can, uh, as we create artificial neural networks to replicate, um, the different functions, like, like right now it's vision or 3D vision, 3D semantic segmentation.
Um, you can begin to, um, you can begin to make the machine imagine or interpolate or, or imagine and do GAN synthesis where it can, with interpolation, it's like you have, uh, images that you can start with and then you can imagine how they would look if they were different or if they were transformed.
Or you can interpolate the transformation from one image to another and, and then create objects that are in between, like, like something in between a couch and a chair.
That's interpolation.
Something in between, uh, an airplane and an automobile would be interpolation.
Um, and GAN synthesis would be like, uh, all right, well, you know, and now, so an avocado chair is, you know,
in between an avocado and a chair and that is, interpolation is also, again, synthesis from another, uh, in another way to, to describe it.
Um, you're asking AI to create something that doesn't already exist so that, like, you're like, okay, well, what if that chair, what if the top of the chair was, like, larger, right?
What if it was taller and wider?
And then, so, while you're talking, it's, like, AI is, like, understanding, um, the chair in its original context and it's understanding the words that you're saying and it's looking for chairs that are larger or it's looking for the concept of large.
And it's synthesizing a chair now with a larger top or that's, but maybe the top of the, the back is wider and taller, but the, the, the base of the back is thinner.
Like, right, for some, for, for artistic reasons.
I don't know if that would give you any functional improvement to a chair.
I mean, you could try it, but, I, but I think that, um, I don't know, that might do, that might do, that might do, that might work well for certain climates if you want to, uh, have more airflow on your midsection.
But more, but more, uh, more comfort on your head.
Right, maybe you have more head positions, and, but you don't have that many mid, mid, uh, you don't need that much area for your midsection.
Or maybe you want something that squeezes your midsection, like Temple Grandin's, um, she was an autistic, or she is an autistic, uh, celebrity, and she's, um, but she's an architect.
And she, um, she made a machine that would squeeze her body, and it felt really good to her.
And, uh, so she's, she also, um, noticed that animals like to, like, the cattle like to move in, in circles.
And so she made a, a clockwise slaughterhouse that was more successful in not, uh, spooking the cows on their way to, on their way to their demise.
You know what's interesting, though, is I realized that when I was a kid, uh, that having a circular path to walk down, like, I remember there was a science museum when I was a kid, and it had all these, like, special paths.
Like, you could tell there was a pattern in the path itself. And it had these, these special rooms, so that you'd follow this special path that felt magical to follow.
Cause, like, wow, somebody just made a special path for you to follow, right?
And it had nothing to do with the, with the room being, I mean, there was something special.
Cause, so I guess it's, it's the case that there are, um, you know, in, in the study of play cells, they said in the study of rats that, that, that, that play cells are, take one arrangement,
they, they, they, they, they, for spherical rooms, and, and, and, uh, they have another pattern arrangement for square rooms.
But if you give something that's, if you give them a room that's, that's part square and part, um, sphere, like, it's, then, then it,
what happens is one or the, one or the other, uh, either the square room or, or the spherical room pattern,
uh, manages that room that's in between square and circle.
So it's like this, um, so it's like, they, they, they didn't come up with a squircle room, right?
Or a room that's like a pattern arrangement, uh, in the play cells of a rat that was a third type of room that was in between a square and a sphere.
They didn't, they didn't, the rat didn't, um, um, create that new pattern.
It just kept the patterns that it had already learned, and, um,
So we need a guidebook for when artificial intelligence becomes conscious.
Um, and that means, we need, so, there's creating vision, there's synthesizing images, there's synthesizing 3D shapes,
like, learning 3D shapes, like, these are parts of what, uh, the human brain does.
And so, um, you know, some of the, some of the next steps that have been talked about are, are making AI, like,
you have one neural network, eventually, that has, uh, that can, you can train on visual data,
and you can train on audio data, you can train on different types of data, right?
And, um, it automatically, sort of, like, learns any kind of data that you give it.
And it manages to hold on to that data somehow, and store it, so that it doesn't become lost.
And it continues to learn from, like, so, imagine that you learn, uh, associations between visual data,
and audio data, okay?
And, and, and tactile sensation data, right?
And that includes taste, and, uh, and olfactory, olfactory and gustatory, you know, taste and smell.
Uh, so, man, so that's what humans, so, but the sensors on a computer can be different, right?
And, um, so maybe the computer has, uh, a, a system for smelling stuff, and a system for, for hearing stuff,
and maybe it has, you know, maybe it's seeing stuff with all sorts of wavelengths of light that we don't see.
But, but importantly, what's important is the multimodal comparison.
Um, because then you're sort of, like, then, then you're sort of getting closer to what human beings do.
Because we do a multimodal comparison. We are, human beings are comparing the, um, the arrival time of sight signals
with the arrival time of sound signals, with the arrival time of speech signals, with the arrival time of taste,
with the arrival time of smells.
And the arrival time of all these, uh, coincident patterns, basically, across all of our modalities, across all of our senses,
um, is a part of what makes the human neural network, uh, uh, what it is.
It's part of what makes it different from, from other neural networks.
And, um, so there's, there's the multimodal aspect, uh, and deep learning will get there.
Um, deep learning as it is will begin to create multimodal.
Um, it already, it already exists.
There's already, uh, you know, people connecting RNNs to CNNs,
connecting audio information to visual information.
And human, human beings, so, you know, there's this back propagation.
It's like, okay, well, what if we could check the, the, the weights against the, um, against the original image?
Right?
What if we could, uh, what if we could somehow see that what the network learned was not exactly precise to the original image?
And what if we could update the weights, uh, retrospectively to improve the results?
Right?
Um, that's the back propagation idea.
But the, but the idea is, well, well, wait a second, is there a way for a natural brain, uh, to check its own results?
To check for consistency?
And, and, and, you know, one way to do that would be to sort of, um, do, to take multiple samples, like, sort of like, with, with, um, and cross-reference them.
Um, it's like, okay, well, I'm gonna check multiple times.
And, and, if something is true, then it's gonna be true a hundred percent of the time.
And, so I'm looking for those moments when something is not true.
Because something, something that, that is not true, um, could look like it's true.
Right?
But, but, but you can spot that it's not true.
Um, if, on one of the times that it seems to be true, it turns out that it's not true.
That, it's like, okay, well, no, that's a lie.
That's an illusion.
Someone's creating an illusion.
And a lie.
And they're, and they are, and they are, um, masking the truth.
Right?
But if you pay attention, you can, you can eventually, eventually, I, in theory, in theory, eventually, you might, and you may not, you might notice, uh, when they're, um, when they're truth.
Is, is, is, when something seems to be inconsistent about their truth.
And you might notice when, oh, suddenly their truth is, is, um, is contradicted, or, or something is not, not quite right.
And, um, and you would, you would notice this through sort of what I think of as, like, um, like, neural array tomography, conceptual tomography.
It's like, it's like you have all of these, it's like your brain constructs reality out of truth that's established by coincidences.
And, uh, the arrival, or basically the arrival times of coincident information that is remembered by the network.
So the network is tracking a whole bunch of information, but, um, what it notices is the coincident information.
And what it does, what it, what it, what it, it doesn't, what it, what it tries hard to, um, not notice, or resist, is, is, is the, is the illusion.
So there's, like, there's, like, there's, there's, like, this, there's these thresholds where, um, for criteria recognition that your brain has, where it's going to recognize something if it's something, but it's not going to recognize something if it's noise.
So, so, so, so, so you have to get enough, in order to recognize something that is something, you have to get enough of it in order for it to trigger a threshold, and then your mind, your mind recognizes it.
Then, then your mind acknowledges it, right?
At what point, um, does, does your mind, um, acknowledge that something is important to you?
Or, or, or to, or to itself?
At what point does, does the mind acknowledge to itself that something is important?
And, and essentially, well, what is the self exactly?
Um, and, so I guess I do have to talk about that.
I do have to say, well, the self is, um, uh, like, uh, at, at, at the very least, it's a directional concept.
The self is, like, a directional, or direct, or a directional marker to say, to say that this is where something is happening, right?
It's, like, an assign.
Now, you can add things to that, but I'm saying, like, at the root, it's just a direction.
So, like, the, I would say the macro-conceptual context of the mind, because the mind is always, uh, seeking new information, in a sense.
Because the fundamental process of making connections from coincident, uh, patterns, uh, is a, is, is, um, is, like, seeking to know.
It's, like, the, the fundamental, um, uh, mechanism of the brain is, is, is, is ingrained in the actual machinery, in the engineering, is this process.
It's a process.
I'm just defining one process in this, in this machine.
Not the whole machine, but the one process in the machine is always seeking to know.
It's always, seeking to know is perceiving, perception.
And we say it's a seeking to know, because there's an action being performed by the, by the, uh, by the metaphorical gears of the brain, and by the, by the literal neurons of the brain.
There's a, there's a mechanism being performed by the actual neural networks of the brain.
Um, that is, it's not a metaphor.
It's, it's, it's, there's an actual mechanism, an actual physical process that's being performed so that the brain is seeking new information.
But, let me get back to, um, shaping artificial, shaping the mind.
What we've got to, not only, like, be able to look at existing neural networks to understand what they're doing specifically in the context of intelligence.
Um, but also to understand when networks become conscious.
We need to know when networks become conscious, because, um, if, if, if the storms on Jupiter, if any of them were actually conscious, um, we would need to know that, in essence.
Because that's, like, um, that's, like, um, that's now a life form that might be, you might consider this life form to be, like, an endangered species.
Or even, even, uh, potentially, like, uh, an environmental threat if you visited that planet.
Uh, but you also have to consider, you have to consider the ethics of your relationship to that species.
And, um, you need to understand how intelligent is it, how capable of, is it of coordinating its own behaviors, right?
Um, you have to be able to identify if that species is likely to become conscious.
Um, and you need to kind of understand if anything that you're doing could, could be of a risk to that species.
Like, what if, what if, uh, shooting a moon into that, um, into that cloud, and not shooting a moon, but shooting a satellite.
What if, what if sending a satellite, an exploratory satellite probe into that storm on Jupiter that's conscious, what if that is, like, putting a bullet in, in someone's heart?
And, and that somehow that disrupted that dissipative system enough to eventually lead to, um, its dissolution down the road?
Like, the butterfly effect.
It could be enormous, that storm, that conscious storm, theoretical conscious storm on Jupiter could be enormously sensitive.
Um, and so sending any kind of probes from Earth could be, you know, either lethal or, uh, you know, at worst or, or, um, you know, unethical at best if you don't know what you're doing.
Like, like, you should know at least what you're doing, and, and, um, so I think there has to be some consideration of, of, uh, the criteria of what, um, makes for a conscious entity.
And also for reasons of, in terms of, like, um, you know, the ethic, you know, ethics towards our fellow human beings, for example, but, but also ethics towards animals.
We need to understand what the brain is, um, what, what consciousness is within the brain, so that we're not accidentally building, uh, tortured entities.
Right?
So that we're not actually, like, imagine, like, someone, imagine some alien species arrives with, um, you know, they've got warp 10 drives, right?
Like, the 10th, the 10th iteration of warp 10, of, of warp technology, space warping technology, right?
So they, they arrive, and they can travel through time and space, and so, so someday, and so that, someday they just, like, appear, uh, inside the Earth, or, I don't know, like, maybe they, maybe they can travel without traveling, right?
So maybe they're just, like, teleporting from one planet to another, from planet teleporters.
We, like, imagine Star Trek, it's like, yeah, we used to teleport, I mean, we used to travel in starships, but then we realized we could teleport everywhere in the universe, from planet to planet directly.
And so we brought all of these animals to planet Earth, um, from different planets.
And we brought them all here, from these different planets, on, on this, uh, tetrahedron, this pyramid, which opens a, it opens a portal to other planets.
It's a star gate.
