=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0044y Signals in the Cortex
First recorded: 2021-12-21T02:46:01.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/dfb97232-7f72-496e-b310-b6748f646b10
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
I just say that I feel more transparent in terms of understanding what my head is doing, in terms of what my theta patterns are doing, in terms of creating this sort of stable oscillatory signal that just waits for incoming data to update some parts of it.
So, like, it's just main, like, this reality is just this very stable, like, low-frequency theta pattern, theta noise pattern, theta phase changes in a theta wave.
And that is the, that's the, um, that's what my rendering of reality is made out of.
But it's very, like, it, like, you can send in signals of many different scales and many different kinds of signals.
Uh, and it can process it all, like, it has, like, the neurons have, like, this, um, ability to sense all kinds of textures and, and, and, uh, heat and, um, and audio and visual.
They can process, they can process, they can process the, the, um, what is it called, the, the energy of, of the, uh, it's, it's like, um, they can process the phase changes in the light, right?
It's like, um, you have light that has, you know, certain kinds of frequency and, like, has certain kinds of, like, spectrum, like, amplitude, right?
The frequency and amplitude, right?
You have light of different frequency and different amplitude, right?
I mean, I mean, I mean, in terms of, like, you know, how bright is it?
How bright is it?
If that's one example.
It could be, there's a lot of light or very little light.
So, but there's range in the brightness.
And so frequency means the light, that you could have light, could be flashing very fast or it could be very slow, right?
Um, and, and, um, in the amplitude, it could be, like, okay, well, it could be slow, but it could be, like, very warm, uh, or slow, you know, like, like, I'm just trying to say that there's a lot of different character ways to, to, um, portray light.
And there's just, like, this, this, basically this whole, um, and it sounds, it sounds obvious to say it out loud, but it's kind of something that you don't really think about is the fact that if you can, if you can, uh, see it in your mind, then your brain can, can render that.
Whatever you can see in your mind, or with your eyes, or whatever you can perceive with any of your senses, maybe you don't have eyes, I don't know, but, whatever you can see in your mind's eye, you know, if you can imagine a place, right, if you can imagine, if you can, anything that you're seeing in your mind,
your mind, your mind has to be keep, though, of rendering that graphically, because you're perceiving it graphically.
If you're perceiving a visual representation, or the graphics of a place, or the, or the space of a place, you're visualizing the space of a place, or if you just can sense the wall, or feel, the, or know, if you could just kind of know
the size of the place, even if you close your eyes, you just kind of know the size of the place that you're in, right?
If you keep your eyes closed, and just imagine suddenly, the space, you keep your eyes closed, imagine suddenly the space that you're in, like, just, uh, became very big, much bigger.
Now you're, like, in a place that's, like, bigger than, uh, way bigger, you know, than, than the place you're at right now.
And, um, oh, this is massive. It just keeps growing. It's like, the place just keeps growing, and, and, and then, but you're back to normal, you're back to reality.
You can open your eyes. But it's just, it's just this idea that we, um, we have this sense of space, and so going to, like, the fractal hierarchical, um, the fractal hierarchy,
fractal functional isomorphism. Um, it is this, um, thing that we see with, you know, with EEG, and MEG, and MRI, that there's, it seems like, you know,
the signals at one scale are repeating at another scale. Like, there is a, there's, um, similarity, or isomorphism,
um, where you see, like, you know, a system going through, uh, uh, several transfer, several transformation states,
uh, and as part of, uh, you know, a routine oscillation, or it's just, um, some sort of physical pattern happens.
And you say, oh, wait a second, now, that's, you know, for one, for one thing that's interesting is that it's a neuron,
the, the dendrite is, uh, tree-like, it's branch-like. You know, your hand is actually kind of branch-like, right?
See, your hand is kind of like a dendrite, in a way. It's, it's, it's, not, not, not actually, but, like,
it's not functionally, it's, your, your hand is, is, um, but think about it for a second, I'm saying, see, see it, see the,
imagine, like, that, you know, with a neuron, that its branches are actually, like, its hand, right?
To us, to us, it's just branches, but to it, what if it, what if that's, like, its hand, that's its body, right?
And I say this because I was reading in John Lee's book that the, um, that the white blood cell, uh, can,
can, can sprout arms, and, and pull, and push, and prod, and move, force its way through, um, the, the, the cellular structure,
it's like a little man, it's like a little bear. It, like, it crawls through, the white blood cell crawls
through this forest, uh, that's you, to get to the destination where he does his job. And, and meanwhile, he's,
and meanwhile, he's coordinating with, with headquarters who are giving him, like, steps, uh, along the way
to, to help guide him, you know, where, okay, where do I go next? It's like, can you imagine just, like,
this dense, like, mess of a forest of flesh that is, like, never-ending. You can never get outside of it,
okay? And, but it's just, like, you can't, there's no road signs. Even if, even if you had a road sign,
it'd be fucking confusing. Like, what does this road sign mean? What, I don't, does this road sign mean
I need to go through this wall of flesh or that wall of flesh, right? It's very confusing, but,
you know, but, but it's, it's kind of like, I think of the price of the feedback system.
The price of the feedback system is where you can stick out your hand and, um, you can think about
something you want to grab with your hand and you can move your hand closer to grabbing that thing
and eventually to grabbing that thing. But a long, but if you divide that, um, your hand movement in time,
um, into, like, imagine you filmed your hand movement at some normal, normal speed and reaching
out and picking up something that you would normally pick up. Or imagine someone else doing it if you
want. But just, um, uh, just, you know, think about what happens in your mind at each interval in time.
Like, imagine that, that takes, um, a second. You think, okay, I'm going to pick this up. Okay,
so you take that one second, now divide it into, like, um, I don't know, picoseconds or something.
Like, I'm just saying, I'm just saying, like, imagine it's like a movie, right? And every, at any,
every interval of time, you pick the interval of time, it could be milliseconds. Okay.
Right. Then, um, that's like, cause, like, um, you know, I think, um, you know, neuro, you know,
neural firing, you can think, people think of it as something that's happening on the scale of
milliseconds. Maybe three milliseconds for a synapse to detect, uh, that, uh, it's been
triggered, right? Cause it's weird. It's like a synapse has its own threshold. That makes neurons so
fucking complex. I think what it represents, um, I think what it represents is a learned pattern.
So, here's what I'm saying. Okay. So, with the thing with the granule cells, you had the situation
where the, you had the situation where the granule cells, uh, were, okay, so they have this weird,
where they're, they're converging signals from, from their perspective, the granule cells are
converging signals from, um, from the interino cortex. But from the interino cortex, they're
diverging signals to the granule cells. Period. They're diverging, they're diverging, but, uh,
signals because there's like a million granule cells or something like that. And, and then
there's like, made two, something in the order of like 50,000 interino cortex cells. So, it's
like this massive fanning out, right? You're going from a small amount of cells to a comparatively
larger amount of cells. Uh, and so you'd have this fanning out or disper-, or divergence.
Convergence, divergence is it, is that right? Um, so you have this divergence of activity. It's
fanning out. So, in a macro, in a macroscopic way, these signals are diverging. But it's
curious that, that from the, from the, from the granule cells perspective, it is converging
cells. In fact, all of the, all of the neurons in the brain are converging signals and diverging
signals at the same time. That's this sort of like, the, the part, the part that I think
isn't really, that may not be really thought about, really well thought about is, is, is
this, um, so if you have these, the signals are diverging and then, but they're also connecting
like, there's going to be like, um, you're going to have like many different, you have
like a huge, so a huge number of, I forget the numbers, gosh, but it's like a huge numbers,
this is an important number too. I have it written down somewhere, I've posted this somewhere,
but it's like, if you have, um, this was from the book by Buzaki, and he was saying, um, look,
this is great, this was great, this was a great moment, right, and, and it was, it was a great
thing that Buzaki said, he was, he was, he was, he was, wow, his book is so good. So here's
a thing. So the way to structure the book is, I have a lot of my own original material,
right, but what I'm good at is sort of like writing ideas while I think about someone
else's material, right. So if I use someone, so if I think of the book as like a series
of articles, and I like the way I'm thinking about this, it's like, um, the outline is, is
looking really good, looks really good. Uh, there's more stuff that I'm adding to it, it's
growing, but, um, so what I'm thinking about is, because the, the, sort of like the comprehension
of the whole, of the whole thing is a little bit, um, a little bit hard to get at, right.
So I'm like, okay, so like, so I think that I, I don't, it's, it's like, I think that I
want to go over each piece of evidence one more time. Like now I have an outline, but, but
this is a way of accomplishing two, two birds with one stone, which is that I, what I want
to do is sort of like explore, I want a list of all the exhibits, and then I want to sort
of like explore the exhibits one at a time, um, and just add that to the book. And so the
book is just like about these exhibits, right. This is like, this is like, this is like, there's
like a Disneyland's worth of stuff here, right. So, okay, so these are exhibits, right. There's
tons of stuff to talk about. So, um, so yeah, I can do that. I think we should, uh, extend,
uh, Hodgkin and Huxley in the Sulton, with the Sulton Wave model, and, um, circle back to
the original Hibian idea. Okay, so let's make a timeline. Um, so we've got Hebb, um, we've
got the creator of EEG.
