=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0041y reality is a 3D phase field
First recorded: 2021-12-25T23:47:02.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/f3d7bc73-d6ae-4b83-9de0-313a11121359
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So, this is a thought experiment.
Imagine that, look at whatever's in front of you, but imagine that none of this stuff that you see in front of you is really cool.
I'm looking at a desk with a bunch of stuff in it.
Some devices are charging, lots of cables.
There's some jars, a VR headset.
Looks like there's some milk.
And a protein.
There's some supplements.
It's going to be dropovers.
There's a book, Functional Connections of Cortical Areas.
And it is just the case that I'm just going to say, okay, let's imagine that none of this stuff is really good.
Computer, even though computers are really good.
None of it is.
Let's just say that starting from, like, zero description, where what you described might as well be a hologram,
here's what I'm saying, is mine will be a hologram that has, that has, uh, because what I'm saying is, like,
if you imagine that your brain is just detecting information as, uh, changes in a 3D-based field.
Like, your brain is predicting the changes in a 3D-based field, so it places you in the world in a 3D-based field.
If you imagine that reality is a 3D-based field, your brain is making a 3D-based field that represents the world.
Now, is that this 3D-based field is, like, can we say that this is, like, a hologram?
It's, like, a light field hologram that, um, is, like, a volumetric video that's being played to yourselves live in real time.
Um, and so there's, like, a volume to your, um, existence.
Like, there's a space, right?
But, uh, but my, one of my arguments is, the volume is not inherent to your, to your mind's thinking.
The volume is something that you learned after you opened your eyes the first time.
Um, that's my hypothesis.
I'm just saying, like, the volume of space, uh, maybe your brain develops it in the world.
I don't know.
Maybe.
That's interesting.
But, um, the idea that I have is that it's not, there's nothing intrinsic to, um, that initial state of consciousness
that requires us to put something in there that says, uh, this unit is going to perceive volume, spatial volume.
What I'm, what I'm suggesting is that the experience of spatial volume is, um, the experience of the phase space
that has the organism that perceives it, right?
Right, so, the organism is going to see some jars as attractive, and some, some of the things
that it sees, like, oh, well, that's actually trash, or that's not attractive, right?
But the fact that I perceive something as, like, trash as not attractive, and something
that's an item that I want to keep as attractive, it's just, it's interesting the way, like,
and your brain may have a different map, but in terms of how it represents, uh, something
that you're looking at, what the meaning that it is to you.
I mean, you may have a very different interpretation.
It's just, I just made up a story, basically.
Um, that you can, you can ascribe any emotional attribute.
Like, my fan, I feel very happy, this fan is, um, it's an air loon.
It just, it makes me feel really happy.
And I just made that up.
I just, like, no, I just bought this from Target.
It's just not a, it's not a special fan.
It doesn't have an air filtration system taped to it, which we're supposed to replace
it for three months, so I should replace this one.
But, um, but yeah, you can tape an air filtration system to a fan, and it's pretty useful.
But what I want to say is, what does space mean to you?
I think we have to say it's an oscillating base view.
That, um, every particle that makes up every atom and every photon is, uh, oscillating space.
It's, it's, like, it is, I would say it's, like, the, it's the configuration that space
is in, which is a phase.
Like, space has different phases, okay?
So it's, like, it can take on, like, the state of, of having an electron.
Which is, which is like, um, I would say it's, like, imagine electron is not the, it's not,
it, it, it, an electron as we know it is, like, the peak of the real electron.
I would say the real electron is a lot bigger.
I'm, I'm just saying, I'm, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not sure this is correct, but I'm just saying,
just imagine this for the sake of an argument, right?
Imagine the electron is a lot bigger, and that you can't separate the magnet, magnetism from
the electron, and that the whole magnetic wave is part of that electron, right?
Like, imagine that the real size of the electron is actually much bigger, and that it includes
a magnetic wave, that every electron has a magnetic wave.
That's interesting, right?
And, um, yeah, that's really interesting.
And, um, so I thought, yeah, so we should have, like, definitely have, what is interesting
about a phase group, right?
Okay, okay, let's say that, in reality, the phase field of the table, right, there's a
lot of atoms that make up the table.
They have a homogenous surface, I'm not sure what the right term is, but they, but as a,
um, I don't know how to describe this.
They, they all, um, they're bound into material.
Atoms are bound into material.
And, uh, it's, but it's like, here's what I'm saying, like, the atoms themselves, right,
they're just, um, what I'm trying to get at, it's, it's like, the configuration of space
is, um, like this, the configuration of space is like this, um, mat, it's like this magnet
that is, uh, in a chaotic oscillation, um, inside a harmonic oscillation, right?
So, it's like, okay, so it's like, so imagine that ideally space is, um, like, half on and
half off, but imagine, okay, so no, no, that's, that's, that's something, that's something
interesting.
Like, imagine it's like, um, there's four different modes of space, and there's one that's like
off-off when it's on-off when it's on-off when it's on-off or off-off, something like
that.
But anyway, the point is, like, there's four different modes of space, right?
And, um, the off-off is the only one where nothing can exist, right?
And the other one is something could exist while something else doesn't exist.
And then another one is, like, something, um, can't, something doesn't exist while something
else does exist.
And that's like, and that's like another scenario.
And then there's, like, um, the scenario which two things can't exist, right?
And it's like, um, so just, just, just like, I'm just saying, like, what is the, like, scenario
that's most likely?
Why is one scenario more likely than another in this scenario, in this Bayesian logic?
Like, if there's, if these things could be 50-50, why is it more likely that there's, um, nothing
when that's, like, one of the many possible configurations?
Just hear what I'm saying.
And, um, so, it's, it's just that, it's just that, um, there's almost this argument, uh,
embedded in the space-time, right?
Like, like, here, space-time exists because the actual probability of nothing existing
is so remote considering all the possibilities, all the infinite possibilities of existence
that could exist in theory, right?
It's, like, it's, like, almost like space, space is this argument, right?
It's, like, okay, what's more likely?
And because it actually is more likely that some version of reality exists, some version
of reality, therefore, exists, right?
It's just, it's just more likely to be true because out of infinite, out of infinite possibilities,
right?
And what's interesting is that you, if you start this from this fundamental idea that existence
is more plausible than inexistence, therefore, existence exists, um, then you can get to the,
um, the, you then, I mean, I mean, it's just, it's just this, you know, you have to think,
you say, well, what kind of existence is this, right?
Like, are, we seem to, from our perspective, because we seem to be, um, in a situation where
entropy is always increasing, but at the same time, it does seem like technology is becoming
increasingly sophisticated, which suggests that human beings as a species are evolving as
a whole.
That's what it suggests, right?
I would say your, your brain is not, uh, rendering a hologram, I'm sorry, your, your brain is
rendering a hologram, uh, engram, or ectogram, it's, uh, of, of reality, and, um, but it's,
just to say that reality is not a hologram, reality is a phase field that, uh, light can
make copies of, right, so, like, light can make a copy of that phase field, so that phase field
is reproduced, uh, in the, in the scattering pattern of a phase field so that when you shine
light through it, the, the hologram is recreated, the, the hologram is recreated, the light field
is recreated, right?
That, that's the, um, so the brain, uh, also stores the, uh, the, um, there's a matrix of
oscillating brainwaves, and, uh, they receive inputs from, sensory inputs from the world,
sensor arrays, mounted around your, sensor arrays mounted around your body, so your eyes
have sensor arrays in them.
Ganglia neurons are part of the sensor arrays, usually.
Um, your nose has sensor arrays in it, your ears have sensor arrays in it, ganglia neuron
sensor arrays, and, um, so all the arrays are made up out of, out of neurons, different types
of neurons, but in essence, the neurons are, are senders, and they're, they receive signals,
and then they transmit signals, uh, they, um, they do it, they're able to, uh, combine, so
a neuron has sensory capabilities, but, um, because of the mathematical, mathematical principles
of oscillation, that you should read about in book Sync, by, uh, by mathematician, uh, Steven
Strogatz, um, the, um, because of the principles of oscillation, neurons, um, can, uh, by synchronizing
together, they can combine their, um, just like fireflies, they can combine their individual
sensing abilities into a collective sensing abilities, so the firefly community, um, because
they all oscillate together, they basically, like, whenever any of them deviates from its
standard oscillation, that changes the face, the, that sends a knock into all of the other
oscillators, because the signal, the signal becomes off, right, so let's say one of the
fireflies is eaten, or one of the fireflies finds food, and it becomes, you know, in some
way, its rate changes, either it's excited, or it's excited, scared, or it's excited, happy,
or it's excited, you know, joyful, or it's depressed in a stress-delieving way, or it's depressed
in a stressful way, or it's depressed in a, you know, like, you're super, like, now it's
relaxed, or now it's, uh, taking a nap, and it's, like, it's all about what is, um, that
interaction, the signal, the phase change, uh, when one firefly deviates from its standard
oscillation is felt by the entire, uh, fireflies, they all dissipate that energy across their network,
at least as far as the energy, I mean, if it's so, if the energy is so, um, uh, so small
of a disturbance, it may not go across the entire network, so maybe the entire network doesn't
notice it, uh, in that case, but in essence, um, what has happened is that this plate of neurons
aligned in a sensor array, this layer, inside a column, for, for example, uh, it is capable
of the, of collective pattern learning, right, it has multiplied its capabilities, and, uh,
uh, it has gone to, uh, so as I was saying in a previous article, that I believe Mark Zuckerberg,
uh, sees, uh, Facebook as a communications technology company, and to the degree that it's making
it uncomfortable, fuck yourself, Zuckerberg communications technology company, Bell Labs,
I was saying in a previous article that Mark Zuckerberg sees Facebook as, that I think he sees
Facebook as, like, a communications technology company, like, like Bell Labs, that develops
new kinds of communications to bring people closer together, or maybe, like, the, sort of,
like, the, the mission statement of AT&T, you know, to connect, connect you, right, telecom,
telecom technology company, and so there's really, he's positioning the Oculus Quest as, like,
the future of the iPhone, in a sense, that we are going to be looking at holograms, and, uh,
we are making holograms in our brains, so we're going to be making holograms of, of the holograms
that we're using for telecommunication, right, but, like, how much cleaner for communications
be when you, like, can communicate, uh, with holograms, right, that's, like, real, like,
brain-to-brain, uh, communication, how many of us do that right now anyways, right, like,
what if I, like, what if I could draw a shape to describe the relationship, the relationships
between people, right, so, like, what if I could describe that as, like, a shape, so can
I draw that?
Okay, so let's see, I need to be able to, like, have my computer screen until brush open at the
same time, because I need to be able to, like, reference, we need to, like, bring a drawing
in the, in the toothbrush, maybe open brush, um, okay, so maybe ask Anna if there's a way,
see, maybe she knows.
