=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0053y Oscillators
First recorded: 2021-11-13T05:09:26.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/daa76317-3f93-4ee5-9263-5c69824edc4c
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So, the brain is manipulating the quantum phase field, the quantum field, the brain is manipulating the quantum field, because the phases produced by the action potentials are manipulating the phase field of space.
And the brain is also detecting the changes in the phase field of space.
And so, the phase field becomes the canvas of consciousness, and the phase field itself is being shaped to become the rendering that the brain is perceiving.
And the perception of this phase field is the inner representation of the patterns learned from the ecosystem, and the patterns learned from the brain's body of causation, that is its muscular structure, right?
And its brain. And its brain. So, it's like, there is, the self, and the self-awareness is that, um, uh, you know, some, you know, some, like, half of your signals are, like, sensor signals, and the other half are motor signals.
And, like, you can divide the brain into basically two types of signals. They're either sensor, uh, signal circuits, or they're motor signal circuits.
And, um, and, um, uh, and it's very interesting that there's, they, they both go, both kinds of circuits go everywhere, but it, it kind of means that, um, I mean, not, not exactly everywhere.
I mean, there's incoming, there's incoming sensory areas, which go to the, the thalamus, uh, for most of them, and then some of them, uh, go to the, uh, the, the temporal lobes, uh, first, and then to the thalamus, um, and other brain areas.
Um, but the, um, like, the, um, like, the orbital frontal lobes, and the enterinal cortex, and, uh, and the hypothalamus, and, um, and the thalamus.
And, so, yeah, so there's basically, like, a lot of interesting neural circuit pathways, but the incoming sensory pathways, like, most of, the rest of them, like, you know, the eyes, the ears, um, uh, the, I have to look into, the tongue and touch.
Like, they all go to, from, from, from the sense organ, um, to the thalamus first, and then they go to the bottom of the, of the neocortex, and then they go, um, up through columns in that part of the primary sensory cortex that they, they correspond to with, you know, um, touch and, um, taste in, in the somatosensory cortex.
And, um, and, uh, envisioning going into the upcipital lobes first, and then the parietal lobes, which is where it starts to make a lot of connections with the, with the, um, the inputs from the, the temporal parietal junction,
as it is a place where a lot of inputs converge, and then it includes the inputs from the ear to the, um, uh, to, that it go to the thalamus and then to the, to the auditory cortex, or I like to call it the audio cortex.
But, yeah, so, I mean, essentially, the brain is, um, creating patterns in the phase field of spacetime, and that's what other neurons are detecting, and that phase field then becomes the, um, the etching, or the brain's notepad, of consciousness.
Because it's only transmitting phases.
It's transmitting phases, potentially, on an electric field, a magnetic field, um, a mechanical field, like audio waves, right, or mechanical, or, or, um,
and, um, and a chemical field, because it's sending chemical waves, and, um, and also, um, a, uh, a thermal heat field, right, because, um, because there is some, there is some, uh, thermal signaling that happens when, when, uh, neurons activity picks up.
You have, um, all of these signals can, like, um, I mean, it's, it's a really interesting question, like, imagine, imagine how, try, try to imagine how LTP happens, uh, in an instance where there's no, where there are two neurons fire at the same time, and they're close, but they're not connected.
Like, somehow, like, somehow, a connection has to grow in between them, and they could be two, they could be a thousand neurons apart, or, or, you know, they could be, um, they could be, they could be billions of neurons apart,
and still form a connection that didn't exist before, because they both fired the same, because they both started oscillating at the same, at the same time, with the resonating oscillating, right,
because they both fired in response to the same pattern.
They sort of represent, um, different aspects of the same pattern on different, different areas of the brain, like, like, um,
um, you might have part of a pattern represented by, by, what you're holding, and part of a pattern represented by what you're seeing, that, that is what you're holding,
and part of a pattern represented by the sound of what you're holding as you bang it on your knee, or something.
And, um, so you, you have basically the, the concept of the pattern, and the orientation of the pattern, um,
um, in each of these modalities, that is being represented in, in each of these brain areas, and all three brain areas,
are, um, are firing together and wiring together, um, even if they're, even if, like, their initial connections are random,
they're now firing together and wiring together, and neurons that fire at the same time across these vast distances,
um, they, they start to form, um, like, like, specific connections, like, eventually there's,
there's a very specific connection that, that, um, that, um, that, um, that forms, just because, because, because, because spines grow,
and, um, um, at the same time, when, when spines grow, um, they, they take, um, they take energy away from,
I mean, okay, so, this, this part is a little bit weird, because, I mean, I would, I would say that my main hypothesis is that,
is that for, um, a decoupling, like, a decoupling, like, you could have, like, there's a difference between a splay state and a decoupling,
so, a splay state is when there's, um, sort of, like, uh, almost a perpendicular,
perpendicular, uh, coupling, uh, it's the way I think of it, it's kind of weird, but, um,
like, they're not, like, um, like, they're not firing at the same time, but they're firing
in alternate time, like, it's, there's, it'd be, like, um, there's the most amount of distance
between the start and the, and the end of the firing sequence as possible, so, like,
basically, the way it works is, when one fires, um, about half, about halfway after, about halfway
after the time that it fired, that's when the next one fires, and then, when it's about halfway,
through, it's, it's firing, that's when the first one fires again, or, um, yeah, it's, it's,
like, the cycle, it's, like, a cycle, it's, like, they're, they're, instead of being, um, aligned,
they're, um, they're, like, they're, like, gears that are, um, aligned at being misaligned,
right, like, they're, like, almost at a cross shape, in terms of their alignment, like, they'll,
like, one will fire, and then halfway through, before that one resets, the halfway through, the,
the, the time between the firing and the resetting, that, that, that halfway time is when the next one
fires, and so they each fire at each other's halfway time, that's the best way to say it, yeah,
they each fire at each other's halfway time, and that way they never fire at the same time,
but they're also, like, um, sort of, like, right in the middle, it's, um, yeah, and so it's,
it's, it's, it's like that, um, it's, like, they're, it's, like, positive and negative orbiting
each other, right, but, um, but anyway, that's display state, so display state is, like, the odd
couple of oscillations, it's, it's, uh, it's an, it's an, it's an off, it's an oscillation,
oscillation, oscillation, um, yeah, that's weird, anyway, um, but, but yeah, that's, like, the, it's,
it's almost, like, you think about that, the, the, the idea of a display state, and you think about it
in terms of, of, um, uh, let's see, a display state is basically, um, yeah, this alternation
between two oscillations, that is, an alternation between two oscillations instead of a synchronization,
but it's a synchronization by, by alternation, right, um, and, and I think there is an alternate,
there is an alternation dynamic at play between, um, I suspect that it's between, uh, like, the
reason, like, the reason we can, we can either detect a particle's momentum, um, or its, uh, I mean,
as, I mean, a particle's location or its velocity, we can either detect a particle location or its
velocity, but not both at the same time, right, something, something like that, it's, I have to,
I need to look this up, but, um, the, I, but I'm just saying, like, well, maybe, um,
just because it's, it's oscillating between having a location and a velocity, like, between, um,
a state, so you have, having a location would be, like, um, I don't know if that makes sense,
though, because you're saying, because you're, because, like, yeah, I'm not, I'm, oh, that is the
weak part, that's the weak part, shit. So, when neurons fire together, the, uh, they're modifying
the, um, phase field of space, um, when neurons fire at the same time, the phase field of space is
changing, uh, they, um, the line that is directly connect, directly, um, between two neurons that
fire at the same time, there's a line between them, uh, where space is moving faster,
because, um, basically, space-time is moving faster, because space-time is hotter between
them, and the area between them, because they're both, because they're heating it from two sides,
and so the area directly between them is, between two oscillators, is hotter than the, than the area
that, that is, uh, not directly between two oscillators, and the further you are, sort of,
like, okay, so if you draw a line between two oscillators, and then you go to the midpoint
between two oscillators, and you draw a line that's perpendicular, going up or down, just, it's a
perpendicular line, and, uh, so the idea is that, um, the, the further you are away from, uh, on,
the, the, if you're on the line that is perpendicular, when it's going up and down, the further you
are on that line, the greater, the greater the radius you are away from the horizontal line
that, um, the cool, then the cooler you, you are, and, um, and it's kind of interesting, because,
um, the, okay, so, I mean, it's, it's, it's almost, it's almost like, um, the phase field
is going to have, um, cold spots that are, that are defined as the, um, as the, uh, the,
the boundaries of, uh, the, the, um, the bubbles of, in between hot spots, right, it's almost like
this, um, it's almost like a checker pattern, right, see, we're hot, we're hot spots linked
together, and in between the hot spots are dark spots, and in between the dark spots are hot
spots, so it's like a checker pattern. The phase field of the brain is like a checker pattern, in a
sense, with dark spots and cold spots, but, um, but the, what happens is that, um, oscillators,
an oscillating sensor, or transmitter array, which is like a, a column, which is like a, which is
like, I'm sorry, it's like, um, a row, it's like a layer inside a column, that sensor array is going
to, um, formulate a pattern that consists of neurons that fire, that also inhibited other neurons,
and that carves the pattern out of the tonic firing rate, so normally on, the, the, the, the
oscillators all fire tonically, until they're disturbed phasically, which causes some of them to become
inhibited, anywhere, in any case, it creates, the whole array becomes a pattern that is perceived by the next array,
um, which receives the, the changes in the phase pattern that are created by the first array, and then
the next array basically has a, um, learns a, um, a magnified, uh, perspective, um, that is, um, it's, it's like,
um, it, is learning a picture rendered by the first layer, it's learning a pattern, it's learning, like, every neuron
is learning a pattern based on, uh, uh, which, uh, based upon its, its, um, its, its, uh, correlation, firing
correlations with other neurons. So every neuron is learning a firing pattern because it recognizes the, the, the, the, the five different waves
from other neurons of fire. So when a neuron fires, it transmits a mechanical wave, um, a chemical wave,
a wave in terms of a disturbance in the electric field, a wave in terms, in terms of the disturbance
of the magnetic field, and a wave in terms of heat. And all five of those waves are traveling, uh, across the
brain heating up space, um, but also, um, they are speeding up spacetime because heating up space is the same
is speeding up spacetime. And, um, so the, um, but then some of, uh, spacetime is also slowed down because
it's inhibited. And so its frequency is slower, but it's, at the same time, its amplitude is higher.
So it's inhibited, inhibited, but it takes up a lot of space,
a much larger amount of space than, than the faster spacetime. And so it's like space has, um,
different configurations. Either it's very spread out in high amplitude, which is, um, like the space
in between galaxies, or it's very compressed and crunched together, which is the, um, which is what's,
um, the, which is the space inside galaxies. So the space outside galaxies is very, um,
very expanded out, outwards, like a balloon. It's like it pushes itself apart.
And the part that's pushing it apart is the sort of, like, horizontal, these are the horizontal triangles
that fit inside the, the, the, um, basically the lines between spheres.
So let's say you have three spheres, right, that represent the sun, the moon, and the earth.
And there's, there's a, there's always a triangular line. In each interval of time,
there's always a triangular line between the three of them.
Okay. And that triangle line is hotter than the rest of space. It's basically like the direct line
between the earth, the moon, the center of the earth, center of the moon, and the center of the sun.
Those lines, the direct lines between every planet, those lines in space are hotter
hotter than the rest of space-time, right? So the line between the earth and the moon is hotter than
the rest of space-time. And also time moves faster in between the earth and the moon than it does in,
and, um, if you draw, if you draw, if you find the midpoint between the earth and the moon,
you draw a straight line between two. If you draw a straight line from the center of the earth to
the center of the moon, and you find the midpoint between the earth and the moon, and you draw a
perpendicular line, okay? And the further you go out, uh, along, um, the, that line away from
the perpendicular line, away from the line that goes in between earth and the moon, uh, the cooler space is
until, um, that line is between, uh, the earth and the sun. So in a sense, the earth is, and the sun
attract, attract each other's heat. They, um, yeah, they attract each other's heat, and they heat up space
around them, around each other. And the space between them is hotter than the space that is,
is not directly between them. So the, the space that is, like, um, but it's like, it's like there's
a radius, right? There's a radius of effect, which is, like, if you take the center of the earth and the
center of the sun, and you draw parallel lines that intersect the sun and the earth at the same time,
but the lines have to be parallel, and they have to go through the center of the sun and the center of,
of the earth. See? So just, you just have parallel lines, right? And the idea is that, um,
let's see if I can hear this. And, and the idea is that the, um, why did I, why did I bring this up
again? So you have, um, the idea is that the, the diameter of the earth and the diameter of the sun,
um, I'm just thinking about the radius of the gravitational effect. Obviously the sun and the
earth are close enough to each other to, that they're locked in orbit with each other. Um,
um, which is why we're alive, right? If they were not locked in orbit with each other, then we wouldn't
be talking, of course. Um, in space, everything remembers, because an oscillator encodes the memory
with a change in its spin. Like, if the, if, um, if an electron's spin changes, that change is, um,
is a pattern that changes in space. And so space-time itself can change, uh, can store memories as changes
in spin. Um, or changes in, in phase. Like, if an electron, if electrons and a positron combine
with become a neutron, right? It's, there, there's a new phase happening, and, right? So,
so those are particles that condensed spatially, but expanded temporally, right? And so I'm thinking
that there's an inversion between expanding temporally and, and expanding spatially, right? So that means
that planets are space that has expanded, um, spatially, but space is space-time that has expanded temporally.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I did it backwards.
Space is space that has expanded, um, uh, horizontally, um, planets are space that has expanded vertically.
Right? So the idea is that the planet represents a group of oscillations that have become merged together, and they're slowing space down.
And the slowing of space-time relative to the expansion of space means that their configuration is that space is dense and material, right?
And by implication, then, the opposite of dense material is sparse energy. Like space-time is like sparse energy.
Yeah, and so space-time is either dense material or sparse energy. And so light and photons and electrons and the entire electromagnetic spectrum at the particles level, at just individual particle levels that are not oscillating in atoms.
They're just particles. Like that part of space-time, that expands. And it expands relative to... because it's slower.
So it's expanding in dimensions, in the dimensions of space that represent the inversion of the expansion into space-time.
Like space represents slowed-down space-time. Because it's like, um, it's like the mass of energy. No, it's like the volume of energy.
The volume of energy is really voluminous. It's a huge volume. The volume of energy is this, um, vast distance that's inverted to the speed of mass.
The volume of energy. The volume of energy is inverted to the speed of mass. Does that make sense?
Yes. Yes, it does. Yes, it does. Because I, because what I'm saying is like the idea of mass is that mass is, um, much more slower in frequency.
See? So the volume of energy is inverted to the speed of mass. The speed of mass. The slowness of mass is inverted to, ah, this, that, mmm, volume of energy is inverted to the slowness of mass.
The volume of mass. The volume of mass. The volume of mass is the, um, is the contraction of energy. The volume of mass is the contraction of energy.
The contraction of space-time into an oscillatory configuration. It's like oscillations eating other oscillations.
So the volume of space-time is energy. And the mass of space-time, um, is time.
So, I mean, it's like, okay, so it's like, no, it's, it's that, it, okay, so the idea is that, um, it's a convergence of space-time.
So it's like space-time that is, um, but, okay, but think of it as like, it's like there's an inversion of, there's an exact amount of matter and antimatter.
Right? It's like there's an exact, there's an exact amount of, um, mass, uh, like think of mass as like muscle and think of, of, um, of space as like fat.
Right? Right? So muscle has three times the, um, the density of fat.
Like, so a pound of muscle is one-third the size of a pound of fat.
Because it's more dense.
Right?
So because, so basically it's just like saying that planets are dense points in space.
But the dense points in space are the hot points.
So they're hot and dense.
Hot and dense.
And the hot, the heat and the density, and, uh, excites, the heat and the density correlates with excitation in the, in the electric, in the electromagnetic fields.
And in the phase, the phase fields of space-time.
Right?
So the phase fields of space-time, uh, magnetism and, uh, electricity and chemicals and heat, um, and vibrations or sound waves.
Like, like, all of those are, in essence, um, sort of, okay, and the density excites the heat and the density correlates with excitation.
Oh yeah, so, right, the density of the planets excites and heats space.
But, um, the density means that space is moving really fast.
It's the same as, like, a beam.
So, like, a beam just spreads out and spreads out and spreads out.
Right?
But if you have oscillators orbiting, then they have the force of an elevator, but they don't have to go anywhere.
In fact, um, they're going to, they're going to, um, there's going to be situations where you have oscillators that essentially, like, attract, um, oscillators.
Oscillators, um, it's weird to think that oscillators could be 50% of space.
That's weird.
I don't, I don't know if that makes sense.
Um, because the idea is that space oscillates at one point, and then you have increasing extropy and increasing entropy at the same time.
And so the idea was that space-time, uh, goes from a state of maximum, uh, extropy to towards maximum entropy.
But that doesn't really make any sense, right?
At the beginning of space-time, why would there be a lot of order?
But, I mean, I guess the idea is, like, yeah, so, like, space-time was undifferentiated, so I guess that, in a sense, that's, like, um, that's very orderly.
Like, if there's only one oscillation, that's very orderly.
That's very orderly if there's only one oscillation.
And so, like, increasing entropy is, like, space becomes, um, increasingly disorderly.
And so the idea is, like, if everything's disorderly, that means that, like, instead of there being, like, a single pattern that defines all space-time, then space-time becomes divided by patterns, um, that maximally oscillate randomly, right?
And if you have a situation that's maximally oscillating randomly, at the Planck scale to, um, I don't know, whatever the, the, that's the weird thing.
It's like, okay, well, if there's a Planck scale, right, if there's a minimum distance that particles have to jump through, um, and so space is like a honeycomb, right?
If there's a minimum distance in spaces, like a honeycomb, particles have to jump, because they can't go shorter than the Planck scale.
It's just, it's just weird, right?
Particles can't occupy the same space, right?
That's what, that was the understanding.
But you have situations where, um, they call them, you know, positive, uh, positrons and electrons, and, and when they, they're, the pot, the antiparticle of the electron is the positron.
And, um, when they combine, they become a neutron.
So the face, so two particles that represent, that represent, um, opposites, opposite charges of the same, um, phase, same frequency.
Same frequency, but opposite charges, right?
Positive space and negative space.
And when they combine, they become a neutron.
How does that make sense?
Because it's like you have two, two particles that combine, and they, and they enter a different phase state.
So they become a different particle.
The brain is making changes to the phase field, um, but it's collectively sensing the changes to the phase field.
Because oscillations that oscillate together, um, uh, have a, they act as a, as an amplified array.
Like they sense together.
Like anything that disturbs one of them, disturbs all of them.
Um, and so they, they form, uh, they can hear each other, in a sense.
And they have this tonic expectation of firing.
And so whenever firing is inhibited or excited around them, they notice, they notice it, they physically notice it.
And the array physically tracks, uh, patterns, uh, um, through, um, through, um, through reactions that ricochets through all the oscillators in the array.
And, um, but they act as a single array.
So they all become aware of whatever ripples them.
They all react to whatever ripples them.
Um, they are, um, they're a combined oscillator.
So they have a combined effect.
And I think that they're moving, that they're, um, that they're ought to be there.
They're essentially orbiting each other.
And that's, that is, um, causing space to expand in time.
It's causing, um, sorry, that's, that's causing, um, contracted space to expand in time.
Um, but it's causing energy to expand in volume.
In, in a relationship with, it's caused the, the expansion of the volume of energy, which is the space around.
So the energy, so space is energy.
So the, the volume of, of energy around a mass is relative to that mass.
But essentially, the volume is like, if space is a single sheet, right?
Then, um, imagine that a mass is crunching space up.
And the effect, in effect, that could look like, um, if you pushed on a sheet really hard.
Right?
Right?
And you have, basically, um, but if you push on a sheet between two different spheres, between two different oscillators,
then, then the, the line between them is relatively more sunken than the lines that are not between them.
Right?
And that's, so that's the idea, uh, that, um, oscillators warp space.
Because they heat space.
Because they are faster, because they're hotter space, they're faster relative to slow space.
And that means that slow space, um, needs to travel a long time before it completes an interval.
Right?
So fast space, because it's crunched together.
Let's say it's space is, let's say every, every point in space is constantly going back and forth.
Back and forth.
Right?
Like, just constantly moving.
Every point in space is constantly moving.
It's phase space, right?
And, um, um, that essentially, um, when you have contracted space in, in a, in a dense mass, contracted space, it's like things are, um, uh, it's a lot of, uh, movement that is ricocheting.
A lot of, uh, a lot of, basically, like, a lot of collisions are happening.
Right?
A lot of collisions are happening really fast.
And that's part of why space is heating up.
There.
Those are two, those are two parts, those are two, two ways to describe the same thing.
Space is heating up, and it's heating up, uh, and it's colliding a lot.
Those are, those are the same thing.
Right?
So, it's heating up, and it's colliding a lot.
And, um, inside mass.
And the collisions, though, but the collisions are, they're causing heat.
But heat is causing, is like, um, time that's moving faster.
And so, the time that moves more slowly, right, has to, is, time that moves more slowly is literally time that's traveling a longer, uh, distance.
So, the further away time is from spheres, and from the lines between spheres, um, I mean, the, the further that, uh, a point in space,
uh, uh, that is, um, between, um, um, oscillators, and the points, and, and, oh, the furthest point away from the lines between oscillators, um, that point is going to be the slowest, and that means that space is relatively expanded, um, because time is moving more slowly.
And, and, and the, and the time interval between a particle moving from, uh, from, uh, one state to another is sort of, the time interval of particles moving from one state to another.
So, moving from one state to another, moving from one state to another, I'm just trying to, like, think of what is, what is, what is really, um, right, because you're, like, okay, so a particle is a frequency, which is, and the frequency is, like, um, it's, like, uh, frequency and distance, right?
Right, so space and time are frequency and distance, oh, shit, space and time are frequency and distance, um, so essentially what I'm saying is, like, um, the distance is, is, um, a space frequency.
Distance is, uh, it's, uh, it's a frequency in, in, in, in which, um, space is more slow, and slowness is distance, and, in, in, it's cold.
But, um, but, um, but, um, but, where space is more dense, it's hot, and it's, um, it's, it's not, it could be hot or cold.
So let's say space is, um, maybe space is neutral, space is neutral distance, but, um, but density is hot or cold.
It's, uh, it's, uh, let's say it's, um, thermally, uh, chaotic, right?
Density is thermally chaotic because, um, it's, it's moving faster in time, so, but it, but overall it's hotter.
Overall it's hotter.
So overall, um, entropy is, is, uh, I guess happening faster around, um, mass.
And so, um, entropy is, like, the dissipation of mass into energy.
And, um, which is, like, so, um, dissipation, entropy, does that make sense?
And, the dissipation of energy, and so, the universe is either mass or, or, or energy, but the universe is really, like, either mass or frequency.
Or the universe versus either, um, distance or frequency.
Or the universe is either, um, amplitude or frequency.
Like, distance and amplitude, right?
So it's, like, either there's a lot in space, or there's a lot in time.
And so, the warping of space-time is, like, um, when there's a lot in space, time is moving more slowly.
And when there's a lot in time, space is more crunched.
And so, space-time is, I guess, magnetically polarized, right?
Like, positives, uh, attract, I guess, right?
Is that right?
Okay, so it seems I've overlooked something.
So the idea is that, um, the, um, if the oscillation is increasing in energy, then it's going to, then it's going to have a positive electric field.
So, which means it's going to, um, it's going to have a gravitational effect that, um, attracts a, another sphere that has a, um, a negative electromagnetic field.
So, that's interesting.
So, but that's interesting because it's kind of like, like, so what if, um, uh.
What if, because either, because either, in both scenarios, you still have the same sort of vertical lines.
So you could have, um, so Earth could have a positive, but, so Earth, so what I'm saying is, like, so, shit.
Because here's the thing, if Earth has a negative electromagnetic field, I guess there could be an orbit either way, right?
And the Earth is going to have, like, uh, if negative fields can have both positive and negative, right?
It's going to have, it's going to have, the positive, it's going to have, the North pole is going to be positive and the South pole is going to be negative, right?
Like a dipole, like a giant, like a giant, um, a dipole, or a quadrupole, or whatever.
The top is going to be positive and the bottom is going to be negative.
It's like a magnet, right?
Um, and then, um, still consists of atoms and therefore charges.
The possession of these properties allows us to look at the relationship between the positive and negative charges.
Positive and negative are neutral objects exhibit a few key properties towards one another.
Uh, the first property is if the same objects, is if the first property, um, is the same charges objects repel and opposite charges attract.
It seems that two positive charges and two negative charges will repel each other.
Um, so what if a negative charge is, like, um, in a perpendicular phase or a phase, um, a splice state?
What, what if, uh, a negative charge is in a splice state relative to a positive charge, right?
Or is it, is it, is it, is it positive charges, okay?
Okay, so here's the thing, so, um, positive and negative, because, right, because the idea of attraction is, okay, so that's, okay, so why do positive and negative attract, right?
Because they're, they're, um, so there was something to do with, like, pool tables, that's what I think it's now.
If two, if two objects collide there, but they were on different trajectories, and they, and they collide, it's like, okay,
Okay, well, now, how do they move after the collision?
What happens next?
Shit.
All right, so what if we consider, um, a, uh, a positive and negative charge is, like, um, as the, um, like, a positive charge would be, like, the sun would be positive because it is at the point where it's still releasing more energy to the surrounding environment.
All right, it's releasing a lot of energy to the surrounding environment.
Now, so, so, the planets, um, let's say they're all, they're all in an advanced stage of cooling.
They're all a lot cooler than the sun, right?
There's not as much energy being released.
In fact, um, one can imagine that when the planets have lost sufficient energy, that they become, they're, they're basically, um, decaying.
They're basically becoming negative because they're, um, decaying.
So, their oscillations are decaying as opposed to their oscillations are increasing.
But relative to the observer, right?
Um, the oscillations are increasing or decaying.
So, it's, like, a negative, so a negative charge is, like, a decreasing, uh, oscillation, and a positive charge is, like, an increasing oscillation.
It's releasing more energy because more energy is being put into it.
The sun is more positive, right?
And, um, and, um, and Earth is more, um, negative than the sun.
It's not as, not as hot.
So, it's a, it's a relatively, it's relatively positive and relatively negative.
And the interesting thing is, um, so the interesting thing is, so you were saying that the space is warped between stars, for example.
It's warped between galaxies.
It's warped between planets.
It's warped between any oscillator.
Right?
Whether that oscillator is positive or negative.
The space is warped between them.
So, there's heat between them, even if one's positive and one's negative.
Or even if they're both positive.
I mean, in a sense, interesting.
Okay, now, wait a second, though.
So, say positive, say positive and negatives, um, are, like,
decaying or increasing oscillators.
Right?
Okay, and, and, that means that, so, okay, so each oscillator is expanding space, causing space-time to expand.
Each oscillator is a contraction of space that is causing space-time.
Or, because it's, it's causing space-time to iterate where it's hotter, faster.
Um, it's causing space-time to, it's putting a drag on space-time, so it's causing space-time to, um, be faster, closer to the center of the oscillator.
And, and, slow down further away from the center of the oscillator.
So, the curvature of space-time starts from the, the center of any oscillator.
And, and, the, the, the, the mass of the oscillator, the combined oscillator, um, warps space-time around the oscillator.
So, it creates space-time around the oscillator.
But, okay, so, but, okay, so, but, in a sense, what I'm saying is that it creates, um, a, uh, it creates, um, the, the temporal, a temporal, uh, surface area.
A temporal surface area means that, um, the particles that are, uh, moving in random directions will more, will be more likely to move towards a temporal surface area because it's additional directions relative to the rest of the directions.
So, a hot area of space has, uh, as additional pass, uh, along a temporal dimension relative to slower moving space.
Um, and so, you have space-time as, um, the, uh, the expansion of time, uh, because of oscillations.
Um, the expansion of time, um, because of oscillations, um, causes the relative appearance of the expansion of space as a, um, as a direct consequence of the total equilibrium of positive and negative charges in the universe.
Um, so, that if you have a certain amount of space that's positively charged, you have to have a certain amount of space that's negatively charged.
And so, if you have, uh, space contracting in order to be mass-like, then you have, then, then, then a greater amount of area has to exist for space that's not contracted, relatively speaking.
Um, and so, and so, the relative appearance of, of expanded space from contracted space, um, is what gives rise to the curvature of space-time, but also the dimensions of space-time.
Um, and the, um, the positive and negative charges are, like, oscillations that are increasing or decreasing.
Um, orbiting is essentially possible, but a decreasing orbit, let's see, let's say that, um, increasing or decreasing.
Because I'm trying to think of a good reason why two negative oscillations might repel each other, right?
Because a negative and positive doesn't make total sense.
It doesn't make sense at all.
So, it's like, okay, so, if, if two negatives formed a sort of splice state, if a negative and positive were opposite splice, were opposite oscillations, right?
Then why are you saying that?
Because you're trying to think of, like, um, you're trying to see if you can somehow describe the attraction of opposite particles.
In electromagnetism, in terms of planetary, in terms of the movements of planetary bodies.
And I think that is just, it's too much of a stretch.
The idea of positive and negative oscillations, right?
Oscillations are increasing.
That sounds good, right?
Oscillation is, is, there's more energy moving into the oscillation, or more energy being released from the oscillation.
And it's going to have a positive electromagnetic field, which means it's going to be sending, um, it's going to be causing the, uh, the electric lanes to be, um, sending out.
The collisions, the oscillations, the oscillatory collisions in space will still be around vertical lines in both positive and negative spheres.
Both of them will be expanding space, regardless of whether or not they're positive or negative.
Okay, well, there are, so if you think about it, there, planets do collide, right?
So there are situations when two planets collide.
And there are situations when planets orbit.
So maybe the phase, maybe, so, so phase is also going to be, like, um, velocity and, of planetary bodies through space, right?
So, they're not moving directly toward each other.
The path, um, the, the, um, the path where they keep missing each other.
It's sort of like, um, sort of like, um, sort of like the configuration space.
And so maybe they're repelling.
So maybe planets are positive and they're repelling.
Does that make sense?
No.
The idea that they're, they're falling towards each other makes sense.
And that they're warping space between each other.
Because, but they're warping space between each other, but their velocity is greater than, than their, um, attraction to each other.
Right?
The velocity is greater.
And they're not, and they're not, uh, they're not on a collision course because, because the amount of, um,
um, pull that they have on each other is actually weak.
So they're just, um, slightly altering each other's paths.
They're, um, they're in an oscillatory pattern that is, um, the Earth and Moon are synchronized.
In terms of the Moon doesn't, is, the Moon's, uh, rotation is, is, um, aligned so that a certain side of the Moon is always facing Earth.
Right?
It's the kind of synchronization.
But, okay, but here's the thing.
Is that, um, so the, the Earth is going to have a positive and negative, uh, dipole.
Positive and north pole, like a battery.
Right?
I think.
I mean, maybe I need to look this up.
Okay, so think about the, the rate of the spin as something that is accelerating the, the distortion of space.
Right?
So the idea is that something like the Earth is emitting both positive and negative vertical lines.
That's weird.
Yeah, so I guess it would have positive lines from one side and negative lines from another side.
Let me see if I can, if that makes sense.
Right?
Because that would mean that.
So objects that have both positive and negative charges are neutral.
So Earth, the Earth would be, as a planet, would be neutral.
So planets would be neutral towards each other because they have both positive and negative charges.
Right?
So positive and negative split apart and started, um, and when they went, when they went, and when it went to collide again, it's like split apart.
When it went, when it went to collide again, what happens is that two positive charges, or two negative charges, pushed each other apart.
Right?
Right?
And space expanded.
Right?
And at the moment that space expanded, because two positive charges collided, or two negative charges collided, pushed each other apart, like, these don't belong together.
Right?
Then what happened was, we, um, at the same time, somewhere else, uh, a positive and negative charge, um, didn't belong to, to one another combined.
Right?
But they combined, but they're, they're, they combined, but because they were of different phases.
Right?
They, um, they, um, they oscillate, so it's like a positive and negative of different phases combined, and because they're, they're not compatible, they can't couple.
So they oscillate each other.
So they attract each other, because oscillators attract each other.
But because one's positive and one's negative, they, um, they're out of phase, and they can't combine.
But the resulting activity of them wrapping around each other, because they're attracted to each other, is the, is the densification of space.
And the fact that there's now positive charges elsewhere that are pushing each other apart.
That is, um, that is, um, death matter.
That's like, space is pushing each other, it's supposed to push itself apart, because two positive charges, uh, almost collided, and then they, they bounced off each other.
They push, they're, they're flying apart.
There's a lot of horizontal movement.
So space is expanding.
But the expansion is, is, like, the reaction of, of two positive, two, or two like charges.
Right?
The contraction is the orbiting of incompatible, um, positive and negative charges.
So they're orbiting instead of combining.
All you need to combine, uh, is the two, um, particles to, like a positron and, and, um, an electron.
Because they're the same phase, they can combine.
They, being the same phase means that they are, um, firing at the same time.
And because they're firing in oscillation together, they are attracted to each other.
But if two particles are not firing at the same time, they're not in phase together.
Which means that, um, that they, they fly towards each other, but never directly at each other.
And so they orbit each other.
And, um, holy shit, figure it out.
So that's why we have, we have, um, negative electrons orbiting positive neutrons.
Right?
Is these, these, um, there's, there's oscillators, like, absorb each other, but they can't fully absorb each other if they're not in the same phase state.
And, um, and they can't attract each other unless, unless they're, um, but, but some, but some, um, um, but a neutron has both a positive and a negative, a neutron is both a positive and a negative electron.
Um, so, but what, what, what is it considered?
Yeah, it's neutral.
Right?
Um, but in essence, um, neutrons are far larger.
So, say that when the positron and the electron combined, that space became lower frequency and mass increased, right?
Because of the inversion of frequency and, and, and amplitude.
So, mass is the amplitude, uh, relative to the frequency of energy.
Is the, it, mass is the amplitude that's inverted to the frequency of energy.
Um, because mass is energy moving out much slower than masses.
So, um, mass is the energy, or density is energy related to the frequency of amplitude relative to the frequency of energy.
And, um, positive, um, two planets will, um, so a planet that rotates, is, um, alternately flashing positive and negative charges into, charges in, in, in the magnetic field.
So, it's alternately attracting and repelling in a sense.
So, that would be like, um, I'm just, I'm just trying to picture, I'm trying to picture as the planet orbits.
Oh, wait a second.
So, the rotation of the planet, though, isn't that like, the, um, isn't the dipole positive going to be at the north pole?
Right?
So, like, the spin of the Earth is, um, along the axis of, of the positive and negative poles, right?
Okay.
So, you could also see the positive and negative as the, you could see the negative as, um, attractors of a single oscillation.
Because the positive charge flows into the negative charge, right?
So, the positives are going to be more attracted to negatives because they are repellent, they are pushing out energy and the negatives are pulling in energy.
And two negative charges are, um, why would two negative charges repel each other?
Well, I should be able to look that up, right?
The positive and negative charges are perpendicular oscillations and that's why they attract because they're creating, um, an electromagnetic field that is horizontally and perpendicularly aligned.
So, that is causing the attraction because, um, the, okay, this is interesting because it's like, because it's like a splice state.
So, a splice state, splice states have, it's, the splice state is like the oscillation is repulsed, but, um, but it's repulsed along a different axis in this case.
So, if the oscillation is, if the oscillation, uh, between a positive and a negative charge is, is, is like a splice state, um, then they're perpendicular.
And they attract because they attract because they're not pushing on the same space, they're pushing on, um, polar, um, space in a polar way.
So, it's like, um, so think of it as, like, you have Legos that, um, that fit together a certain way, um, but they, um, but otherwise they, they bounce off each other, right?
So, it seems obvious in retrospect, but, like, uh, like, two, um, spheres are going to attract each other, but, say, if, um, I mean, two oscillators are going to attract each other, because oscillators couple, but they're going, but if they are moving it, uh, oscillators are going to attract each other, but if, if the oscillators,
the oscillators are, it's oscillators are going to attract each other, so, like, one oscillator is an attractor and a larger oscillator, like, every oscillator is an attractor and a larger oscillator, because it's all, because on some level it's all a single oscillation that's becoming increased, uh, that's a single, uh, singular space-time that's becoming increasingly, um, I guess, I guess it's like, imagine that,
um, um, one of them is blowing the wind. I'm trying to explain why they, why they, um, attract each other, and it's that they're, it's kind of, I think of, like, receptors, you know how, like, receptors, like, you can only, you have sodium receptors and potassium receptors,
and they're designed to only accept, um, the one kind of, they're just, like, it's either going to accept sodium or it's going to accept calcium or it's going to accept potassium, it doesn't, it doesn't, um, do both, it just does one thing,
and it keeps out the ions that are, like, like, like, um, if you put a potassium ion near a sodium ion, it's not supposed to, um, be grabbing potassium ion, I'm not sure exactly how that works, so,
but, um, the idea is that positive and negative charge attract because they are, because one of them is, I keep saying, one of them is, is sending signals horizontally,
okay, okay, okay, okay, so, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, think about this, okay, so if you have
two partners, and there's a line between them, that's the shortest path, um, but let's say that, um, okay, so rotate it so that,
If you have two of them, and they both have a positive and negative charge, then they're going to have a stronger pull on each other, because it's like one is pushing space in a horizontal axis, and one is pushing space in a vertical axis, right?
Alright, and that, um, I still don't guess it, I still don't, I'm almost there, alright, but I'm going to look, it's like, um, okay, so you have, so in the case of, if you have two, um, masses that are firing at each other, alright, so one planet sends another light, so the light from the sun is knocking earth and pushing earth away.
Right? In theory. Or, or, or something else is happening, but anyway, it's like, it's knocking earth, and maybe it's causing earth to spin, I, I don't know.
It's doing a combination of pushing earth, or spinning earth, but in any case, it's a knock. The light from the sun is knocking, is knock. And then, and some sort of physical reaction is happening from that.
So there's nothing to prevent the sun from pushing earth away, except that the signals of the sun ascending are pretty weak. So I argued that gravity, that, that, because it's heating space, it's creating time, and that's causing the earth to move towards the sun,
At the same time, but at the same time, the earth, uh, beings are pushing the earth away. They're knocking the earth, right?
Because it's like, because it's a combination of forces where there's like, oh, there's that, there's that, there's that. The sun and earth are, are, are, are, are, are both pushing each other away.
They're both sending, you know, they're both sending, you know, knocks on each other, and, and, with, with, um, their emissions. Um, their light emissions in particular, so the light emissions are going to cause like a subtle push, but in a, in a very subtle push, there's a little push, so they're pushing each other away just a little bit, but they're also curving space, so that they sort of fall for each other a little bit.
They're not, um, not enough to collide, but they're falling for each other a little bit. They're not, um, aligned, in terms, in, they're not aligned in their trajectories in a way that would allow them to collide very soon. Um, their trajectories are not aligned.
But, um, but, um, but in a way, it's like, they are, uh, in a way I'm arguing that, like, if you have, so two, so the idea is that, um, two positive lines would push each other away, but the earth is rotating.
So that they're, it's going to exert a push, but not, like, a perfect push. It's going to exert, like, a push that's like a, it's going to cause a spin, right, instead of a perfect push.
It's not going to, it's going to be a direct push, because not, it's not a direct, because the line, because they're both moving through space, right, so the line is not even direct.
So they're, they're pushing at each other, but they're pushing at each other, they're exerting force in each other, and they're causing, um, but they're also moving through space at the same time, so they're, and, and, uh, so they're not, so the trajectories are not aligned, right, so they're pushing each other out of space, they're heating each other up, which is part of the attractive forces, like, causing their respective particles to fall towards each other.
But not exactly towards each other, but not exactly towards each other. And they're, they're also being pulled along a flag. Electromagnetic flag.
The idea is that, um, the attraction component is just, um, that positive and negative charges are inversions of each other.
Um, that want to, um, that want to, they, oh, oh, it's that the knocks are, um, a splice, you see, a splice state, so, if, if, um, if it's a perfect LTD, it's like a splice state.
Because it means that the, um, the oscillations are perfectly decoupled in space-time. I mean, they're, like, so decoupled, they're, like, they're, um, they're not in sync, they're in alternation.
And, um, so they're ultimately de-synced. Or they're, they're, they're, um, they're de-synced along a perpendicular axis.
So in the brain, we're, we're saying, okay, it causes growth between, causes spines to grow. Um, but we're also saying that spines deteriorate between LTD or, and we're, and we're saying that LTD is a splice state.
The, uh, we're saying that the ideal, the ideal LTD, the ideal axis of LTD is, like, a splice state. Right? Where, um, the most lines are going to be drawn between, um, firing, between states that are firing at the same time.
And the most, the most, uh, decay is going to happen between, um, neurons that are in a splice state firing alternately. So the most, uh, decaying links are going to happen.
And, um, and so, in a sense, uh, uh, a system that's moving towards a splice state is one that's decaying, um, and perhaps collapsing, because it's in a state, it's in a state that's heading towards a collapse.
Because, um, because, um, I guess a splice state represents high entropy, and, um, particles that are, um, this is still not quite right, because I'm sort of, I'm almost arguing that the, that the splice state is, no, no, no, I'm saying that the splice state is between positive and negative.
Right? And that positives and negatives are inverted, right? And that positives and negatives are inverted because they have, uh, vertical or horizontal directions.
And, actually, so I'm imagining that, um, that if you combine electrons together a lot, they're, they're going to repel because they're,
they're, um, they're, um, they're hitting each other, they're accelerating, they, um, space, hitting each other, and that their, their potential is increasing if they, if they collide, so they,
repel, so maybe charge is, um, so maybe charge is, um, like, uh, spin in time?
The charge is, like, um, increasing or decreasing, and so, so what if the charge is, like, increasing or decreasing?
Of course. But real quickly, I just wanted to say that I was thinking of, that, um, forcing electrons together, um, is creating a decoherence of space-time.
Um, which is why, um, which is why, um, the spin, why it appears that the spin has, separated from the charge, is that space-time has become, has, uh, is being pushed apart, where it's decoherent, it's becoming decoherent,
or it's like the, it's like the, um, yeah, it's being stretched apart, and being stretched apart is the same as decoherent, whereas, um, the rotation of the particle and oscillation of the particle brings together spin and, um,
um, so the, so the coherence of space-time, um, the dimensional coherence of space-time is established by the oscillation.
I said the dimensional coherence of space-time is established by the oscillation, and, um, so, if you force two positive charges together, um, they are going to, uh, they're going to repel because they're hitting each other.
So they're going to have, but they're also going to, um, crack, but, um, they're going to attack each other.
And they're going to hit each other, so they're going to cause each other to spin.
Like, um, like oscillators that are attracting each other, but also repelling each other and colliding.
Oscillators can collide and cause each other to spin, or each collision is causing, um, a change in the orientation and the spin and the, uh, angular velocity.
And so the charge of those, like, increasing, um, right, so, think about this, so, like, the atom represents the convergence of angular momentum-spin.
The oscillation, um, like, the electron is, like, the mind is defining.
Oral angular momentum is a sum of the spin and an orbital angular momentum.
So orbital angular momentum comes back to the vector of a plane particle and always parallel and directly parallel.
Um, so here it is orbital angular velocity, where the constant proportional, where the constant, uh, proportionality depends on both mass, um, um,
I want to suggest about how space between a positive and a negative charge is shaped
in such a way that one particle pulls another.
So imagine if the charges are perpendicular.
So if you have two charges and they're perpendicular to each other,
so they're each pushing space away from one another.
So the particles, if they're facing each other,
they're two positives.
Or if they're facing each other, they're two negatives.
But if they're perpendicular, then that means that they're in a space state
because the oscillation points are happening at different intervals.
And the result is that they're pushing space away from each other instead of towards each other,
which is why they're attracted to each other.
Because they're both pushing space away from each other instead of pushing each other.
So if they're both negative, then they're both pushing space along the same axis,
which causes them to push each other apart.
And if they're both positive, they're both pushing space along the same axis,
which allows them to push each other apart.
But if one is positive and one is negative, then that's a space state.
So that means that the charges are perpendicular to one another in space space.
And that means that space will contract between the positive and negative charges.
And it's because of...
Okay, so you previously argued that LTD is like a space state.
Right?
And the space is going to...
In a space state.
So the space state is the opposite of an oscillation.
And it means that there's the opposite of attraction happening.
Okay, so the problem is that in a space state that you're describing in the brain...
So in the brain, two oscillations that fire together are going to attract...
Are going to cause...
Send signals to each other, which is going to cause growth to happen.
But because they're...
But they're also...
But that's also going to...
Yeah, that's going to excite each one of them to grow towards each other.
Okay.
But with LTD, you have a display state.
And so you're going to have the opposite, where the field in between is coldest.
And it's going to...
And everything is going to move towards the...
Everything is going to grow towards the heat.
Or it's going to grow towards the activity.
The temporal activity.
Or it's going to grow towards the increasing temporal surface area.
The increasing temporal surface area is the direction that heat and growth.
And the shape of the alignment of the electromagnetic fields.
And of the electric field and the magnetic field, I guess.
Even the...
Or maybe just the magnetic field, though.
I'm not sure.
I guess I need to read more about the electric field.
The difference between the...
The conversions...
Like, why are...
Yeah.
The fact that there's an electric field and a magnetic forward field...
I don't know.
Is...
The...
The...
Measuring the electric field and measuring the magnetic field results in different...
Different things is interesting.
I guess...
The magnetic field is a different frequency range...
Compared to the electric field.
Maybe it has greater...
Amplitude.
And mechanical waves have even greater...
Uh...
Skit.
Um...
That's greater amplitude.
But in the case of the brain, because of tensegrity...
The...
The...
Um...
Supply state...
Um...
Doesn't create attraction.
It creates...
Dissonance.
It creates...
Um...
Basically, it's like...
When you try to combine electrons together...
And they're...
And they...
Um...
Because...
Because positive electrons repulse each other...
If you combine them into a...
Uh...
Uh...
Uh...
Um...
Space...
Then they're...
Positive and negative charges...
Their...
Their...
Their...
Space is...
Um...
Becoming decoherent.
And so decoherence...
The decoherence of space...
Through decoherent oscillations...
Is...
Um...
Going to...
Cause forgetting...
It's gonna cause...
The brain to forget certain ideas.
The decoherence of spacetime.
Uh...
Caused by decoherent...
Uh...
Oscillations.
And...
So...
In principle...
Decoherence...
Is like a positive and negative...
And a negative charge...
And two decoherent signals...
Are going to attract each other...
No, no...
Not attract each other...
They're going to...
It's decoherence.
So they're going to repel each other.
Right?
But because they're confined...
They're confined to the brain because of tensegrity...
There's going to be a decoherence pattern...
Between two neurons that are firing in opposite oscillations.
And that creates LTD.
But...
For electricity...
Because it's just the...
The...
The...
The...
Configuration space is different.
Electricity...
In space...
Is not...
Um...
So...
So...
Just...
So...
Okay...
So it's just the case that positive and negative charges...
Are going to repel each other...
If the positive and negative charges reach a certain threshold.
Right?
Um...
And this is the case in the brain in this model.
I mean...
I mean...
If the positivity and negativity is...
Going to...
Um...
The relative positivity and the relative negativity is displaced to a sufficient degree...
It means there's too much...
Po...
Too much...
Positive buildup...
In...
The...
Dendrite...
Oh...
Wait a second...
And there's too much negative...
Negative...
Outside the cell...
So the energy is going to be electromagnetically...
Um...
Pulled through the cell...
Towards...
Um...
The negative space created by the receptors...
Um...
That's interesting...
So...
I mean...
So I'm going back to the idea that the negative space...
Um...
So there's negative space in the synapses, right?
So maybe the positive charge...
Um...
Relative to the negative space in the synapses...
Is causing...
The...
Movement of the positive charge towards the...
Towards the...
Um...
Synaptic cleft...
Towards the exit terminal...
Too much positive charge...
And...
Still has to fire to achieve equilibrium...
So...
There's a magnetic moment where...
The positive charge...
But why does the positive...
So the positive charge...
Um...
Has a large enough signal...
That it can...
Have...
An interaction with the negative charge...
And so the cell fires...
Um...
Otherwise the cell is...
Is too negative to fire...
I mean the cells...
Uh...
Displacement...
The cell...
Is too negative to fire...
So the cell has to have...
Uh...
Build up of a positive charge...
Relative to the...
Um...
The action terminal...
Which dissipates the charges...
Um...
And...
So...
It's...
So the neurons...
Charge...
Dissipates...
The charge build up...
Because...
The positive charges...
Are pushing each other apart...
And...
Um...
They...
They build up...
And then they have to be...
Then they all...
Like...
Their collective configuration...
Has reached...
Uh...
Enough threshold...
To force the act...
To force the...
Um...
Of...
All the positive charges...
Enough...
To...
Um...
Push them up...
To...
To allow them...
To be pushed apart...
So they flow towards the...
Negative space...
They dissipate...
Essentially...
Uh...
Towards negative space...
And...
Um...
The...
Um...
So in that...
In that sense...
The positive...
The positive charges...
Uh...
Are...
Pushing each other...
Apart...
Towards...
Um...
More negative...
And...
And...
They're gonna...
Push each other apart...
But they're gonna move towards...
More negative...
And more negative space is bigger...
It's bigger...
So you...
You've got the forces there...
But...
Um...
But the negative space...
Okay...
So the negative space is...
So the...
Okay...
So...
If the two neurons are firing at the same time...
They're gonna grow towards each other...
Um...
And if they're firing...
Uh...
Like...
In...
In a...
Splay state...
If they're firing alternately...
Then they're going to...
Wire apart...
Because...
The line...
Uh...
Between them...
When they're firing apart...
Is...
Uh...
Going to...
Uh...
Become a line of decoherence...
In...
Uh...
The...
Phase field...
And the lines between neurons of fire at the same time...
Are lines of coherence...
Okay...
These are coherent patterns...
And...
Uh...
Uh...
So...
Decoherence...
Patterns...
Are lines between...
Oscillators that are in...
That are firing...
Ultimately...
And...
In...
Uh...
A system that is bound together...
Like a tensegrity system...
Or a bundle of oscillators...
They're gonna cause decoherence among the oscillators...
So oscillators will decouple...
Um...
And that's the basis of LTD...
Oscillators will decouple...
Because of...
Because of a line...
Because of a decoherence line...
In...
In...
Face-Face...
And...
And...
Oscillators will couple...
Because of a coherence line...
In Face-Face...
Um...
So...
So...
Um...
So...
Um...
Alternating oscillators...
Will create...
Um...
Decoherence lines in Face-Face...
In which...
Space is...
Moving apart...
And...
Um...
Coupled oscillators will...
Create...
Convergence lines...
In...
Uh...
In...
Phase-Face...
Where...
Um...
Space is moving together...
And converging...
And...
So...
The convergence lines...
Emanate...
Uh...
From particles...
And...
They magnify between particles...
So they emanate from planets...
And...
And...
And...
Uh...
Magnify between...
Planets...
But they...
Um...
But the reverse is true...
Is that...
Um...
Between the lines...
Between planets...
Uh...
Uh...
Oh...
So...
Okay...
So what's interesting is like...
Um...
So the decoherence...
So the idea...
Is...
That...
Huh...
I'm like...
I'm like trying to imagine...
That there could be an instance of decoherence...
In space...
Because...
You have...
Two oscillators...
So...
I mean...
And I guess I'm arguing that...
That...
Uh...
Negative space...
Is...
Attractive...
Because...
Negative...
Negative space...
I mean...
Um...
The space between positive and negative space...
Is...
Is...
Um...
Collapsing...
Because it's growing towards...
Because it's growing towards...
Because that space is growing towards the oscillators...
And the oscillating lines between oscillators...
And...
The deep...
Uh...
The...
The...
The alternators...
The alternating oscillators...
Um...
Are decoupling phase space between them...
Because that phase space is...
Uh...
Moving towards...
Um...
Oscillators that are...
In sync...
And it's moving away from oscillators that are...
That are de-syncing...
Um...
But...
Um...
If...
A clump of space is the convergence of...
Of...
Aligned oscillators...
Um...
Or no...
It's the convergence of...
It's the...
It's the...
It's the coherence of...
Of...
Of...
Space...
Into...
Momentum...
Into angular momentum...
Wait...
Okay...
So...
What's interesting is that...
Bosons...
Um...
That's...
Okay...
So that...
Uh...
The exchange of two identical particles...
The total of many...
The...
Concerning the change of two identical particles...
The total of many...
Particle wave function is...
Anti-symmetric for fermions and symmetric for bosons...
This means that if the...
Um...
This is from Wikipedia...
If the spin and the...
If the...
If...
Space and spin coordinates of two identical particles are interchanged...
This means that if the space and spin of two...
Uh...
Uh...
Two...
Uh...
Identical particles are interchanged...
And the total...
Wave function changes its sign for fermions...
It does not change for bosons...
Uh...
So...
Okay...
So photons can...
So...
For instance...
Photons produced by a laser or atoms...
And a boson can condensate...
So that is the...
Any number of identical bosons can occupy the same quantum state...
So...
If the two fermions were in the same spin state...
So it's interesting...
So it's like...
Okay...
So it's almost like...
Photons...
Have...
These sort of...
Like...
Ability to...
Combine oscillations...
Temporally...
Which is why they're combining...
In the bosons and condensate...
And heating up space...
But...
Fermions...
Are not...
Able to combine...
Temporally...
But...
Um...
They're not able to oscillate...
So...
Okay...
So what I'm saying is that they're able to...
Is that bosons are able to...
Um...
Can...
Um...
Occupy the same...
Uh...
Quantum state...
They're able to oscillate together...
In time...
Because...
But the...
But the...
Electrons...
But the...
So the fermions...
Are like...
Decoherent...
Space...
Alright...
So they can't...
Oscillate together...
Okay...
Let's close it...
Let's look at this up...
Alright...
So think of it as...
Positive and negative charges...
Sending...
Alternate...
Alternating oscillatory signals through space...
So...
If you have...
Tensegrity...
Then...
They're bound together...
And...
They heat up space between them...
And...
So things grow between them...
But...
If they are...
Decoherent...
Then space-time between them is...
Decoherent...
So they're...
So they're...
Um...
So they're...
Um...
Oscillating alternately...
And...
Uh...
That means that the energy...
Of space...
In between them is like...
The...
The...
You know in the quantum double set experiment...
How there's...
Um...
There are lines that particles move towards...
And there's lines that particles move away from...
Right?
So the...
So the...
Decoherent space is like the black lines...
Um...
So...
So...
So the magnetic force of a single oscillator...
Is going to dissipate over distance...
Which means that...
Um...
The beam is basically...
The beam of light...
That's being fired...
Is basically spreading out...
As...
As the...
As the...
As the...
Energy...
Dissipates...
Dissipates...
But to throw in another oscillator...
Is going to...
Add energy in the system...
Between...
The oscillators...
And so...
The...
Space heats up...
Between them...
And so...
That's going to pull...
Electrons through one of the double splits...
Um...
It's going to make the particle...
So it's almost like...
It's...
It's all...
So it's like the...
Huh...
So...
So I made the argument...
That the display state...
Would cause attraction...
Between two articles...
In space...
Because it's like...
Positive and negative...
Because they're...
Um...
Because the positive charges are...
In the brain...
The positive oscillations...
Are...
Heating up space...
Because there's more collisions...
They're not moving apart...
Because of tensegrity...
But they're heating up space...
Because there's more collisions...
And that's why...
Space is drowning...
Between them...
But the decoherent patterns...
Are cooling off space...
Decoherent patterns...
Patterns in the display state...
Are cooling off space...
Between them...
Uh...
So stuff doesn't grow...
But more than that...
So stuff becomes...
Uh...
Space becomes...
Decoherent...
So stuff actually moves...
Is pushed apart...
Stuff is pushed apart...
Between them...
Because...
Um...
The oscillations are...
They want...
They...
So...
In...
So...
Because it's like a positive and a negative...
In a sense...
In that the...
The...
They're now...
These two points are tagged each other...
But because of tensegrity...
They can't move towards each other...
It's weird...
Because I...
Because I was arguing that...
The convergence of positive...
Electrons...
In a confined space...
Is an issue of...
Them...
Decohering each other...
Because...
They can't move apart...
Because they're caught in...
They can't move apart...
Right?
And so the question is like...
Okay...
Why isn't...
I feel like...
I feel like I'm arguing...
One thing for the brain...
And one thing for...
But I think it's like...
Okay...
So...
In the case of...
Like...
A boson...
So...
Um...
They combine...
The way I'm imagining...
Like...
Oscillators...
Couple...
Right?
But they're combining...
I'm arguing that they're combining...
In terms of...
Uh...
Time...
They're oscillating in time...
Which is increasing...
Which is increasing the...
Um...
But the idea is that...
Bosons...
Uh...
Can oscillate together in time...
And that's why they can...
That's why they can combine...
Uh...
And...
And create lasers and so forth...
Because a laser is space heating up...
Because it's...
It's oscillating in time...
But...
Um...
The fermions...
They...
They...
They...
They...
Are...
