=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0059y Scale
First recorded: 2021-11-09T07:32:39.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/a5728e7f-d283-4fe4-86d5-82cff59a334e
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
I think I can write this software because the representation of neurons are of what signal a neuron represents at a given point in time.
And the signal that it represents at a given point in time is what it's going to be passing on to its array, and that array is going to be passing that on to the next array.
And so patterns that fire in the next array represent a sort of chunked-up pattern because the pattern was sort of like analyzed to a certain granularity of detail and then magnified, sort of,
or you could also think of that as like brought into larger scale focus.
So when the pattern moves to the secondary, it magnifies, it goes into a larger scale, and we get to mesoscale patterns, and then, um, so there's three scales of patterns.
There's, uh, micro scale patterns, there's, uh, micro scale patterns, and macro scale patterns, right?
But, but, but, but technically everything in between as well.
Technically everything in between is, I just wanted to paint the sort of scope of the, of the range, so you can sort of understand the range.
And, um, so it's like, there's micro, there's mesoscale, there's macro scale patterns, and then there's everything in between.
And, um, so you have, the large scale features would be like different places that you can go to, different locations, different cities, different buildings inside different cities.
Those are large scale information configurations, and mac, macroscale and mesoscale stuff.
But where you are relative to some particular facility, um, that's micro scale information.
Like your, so that, that activity is, is your, your live, in the moment perspective.
It's based on your senses.
It changes really fast.
So that's micro scale activity, because it has to change really fast.
And the stuff that is, is rendered by it, like, so imagine that your, your brain is sort of like, also divided into, um, micro scale, micro scale, and mesoscale graph.
And so you can, so you can, um, you can basically say that you have, you can almost, you know, say like, uh, if you match your, you can say like the outer, the outer part of your neocortex,
that sixth layer, like that may be like, where you would represent that macro scale.
It's slower, uh, up, up, up at the highest level, up at the highest layer, the sixth layer.
So you have more, um, the, you can go to the, from the pyramidal cells to the interneurons to the, um, thalamus.
When you get to the thalamic, thalamic bridges, things move at like the delta frequency, right?
It's a much slower frequency.
The top of the, the, the, the core, the sixth layer, it kind of, um, it moves more slowly.
It's lower frequency, higher amplitude.
Um, and I think of it as more of the observer of macro scale patterns, right?
And then I think of, um, I think you're gonna have this like gradient towards the center of the brain,
where you're gonna have like, theta's gonna be a little bit, uh, lower than delta,
and, and we're gonna have, um, alpha, and then theta, and then, uh, so we have the, the gamma, then the high gamma, et cetera.
So, um, but it's interesting that there are gamma where there's, there's, so there's like a, a low 40 hertz gamma
in the, um, delta frequency range that shows up.
It's very interesting.
That, uh, it doesn't so, but I would say, I, I would suspect that the, the, um, high frequency, um,
gamma happens the most often in the alpha, in, in the first layer of cortex, in the, near the thalamus,
uh, near the bottom of the thalamus, uh, or, or the incoming senses.
And, uh, you can have a lot of alpha waves down there, and then, um, uh, maybe the high phasic, uh,
highest phasic, uh, gamma burst.
So, I don't know, I don't know for sure if that's right, but it's just a hypothesis.
It's gonna be like, this rate, this, like, the frequency gets reduced over time, but the amplitude goes up,
and that means that the, um, the, uh, the sixth layer is like the observer, and, uh, or the, um, like the, it's like the, that's where the, um,
it's like, it's like when you look around the world, imagine you're kind of like looking inside your skull, a little bit.
Right?
The stuff in the back, like in the background, in the distance, at the macro scale, like the horizon,
and then, you know, it's like the bridge in the distance.
That's, that's like the, in the sky.
That's the macro scale, the sky and the land.
That's the macro scale, the scene, the background, right?
And then, the stuff in the middle is like, there's the buildings, there's the city, there's the people.
This is the mesoscale, right?
And then, down, of course, the micro scale is down where the bugs are, or, or even more micro than that, right?
The nano, there's the nano scale.
So you can, or the quantum scale, you can get down there too.
But it's, it's, um, it's just really kind of like interesting to think that I have a specific sense of scale, right?
Like this planet looks like it's huge, but that's just my sense of scale.
So, like, this sense of scale is just a perspective.
So, what do we do?
What do we do to do?
Do we do?
