=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0056y Sequences Pattern Piano
First recorded: 2021-11-11T02:28:13.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/2b62067e-9cdd-48ec-8b21-636698123f41
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So different chambers, different piano sequences. That's not right. It's different chambers, different piano sequences. No, no, no, no. Different chambers, different piano sequences.
I was making an argument about different chambers, different piano sequences. Okay, so different oscillators, different oscillators would have different, would represent different features that are being considered.
So if you're considering two different patterns, right, like if you're considering, okay, like, okay, so I'm in a scenario and it's a street.
Now there's a person over here and a person over here and a person over here and a person over here and a person over here and a person over here.
And you're considering, okay, now this person's trajectory, if I go towards this person, I might actually walk close to this person.
Do I want to risk walking close to this person? Do I want to allow them to be nearing?
Right. And so you, like, you think, or do I want to, like, cut a path so that either, like, you know, is behind them so that I arrive at the store at a different time than they arrive at it?
Or do I want to, you know, just allow myself to be on the path that I'm on and arrive, you know, close to the same time that they're arriving?
I mean, does it even matter to me? Would I rather be in front? Would I rather just, you know, get to the store faster and not worry about this?
Right. Like, there's all these, like, um, I think, possible thoughts that someone can have and then that they sort of, like, think, oh, these are all the possible, these are all the, like, the different possible things that I could do.
And, like, um, but what is the, what is the thing that feels the best to me?
Um, what's the best feeling? How, what's the best way to, um, to get through the next moment?
Some people, some people, um, are not, um, sort of operating on this level of, of conscious awareness.
And they're not even, like, when they go through life, they don't have a, they don't have a description of the, uh, of the, um, sequences that they encounter and the subroutines that they encounter and the sort of, um, mystery.
There was a sort of mystery to the world, I think, that you assumed that you're, you, I think when you grew up, you assumed that the people around you understood what the world was about.
But, they don't, like, regular people don't really understand what the world is about.
And, really, like, you know, don't, like, don't be a know-it-all and be like, oh yeah, it's this religion or that religion.
And, that's, just, it's annoying.
So, don't be a know-it-all, right?
And, know-it-alls are annoying.
And, be like, yeah, well, you know.
Um, it's not like you were just saying, like, it's like a comparison thing.
Like, yeah, it's like, um, judgment and comparison thing.
Why am I talking about this?
But, um, but yeah.
So, the idea is that, you know, to compare two stacks of information.
So, the thing is, like, okay, let's say you have a sequence.
And, um, this sequence, um, is a certain, is a certain, like, let's say it was a sequence.
A sequence could be associated with, with something that your brain is tracking.
Right?
So, it could be an ossatory sequence that represents some pattern that your brain is tracking.
Now, this, this pattern will be, will, um, will have a pathway that, that basically gets,
um, that circulates into, into the brain, if it's a relevant pattern.
Um, okay, I'm just gonna leave this going.
It's fine.
I know how the fast forward button works.
Okay, let's get back into a more concrete example.
So, what I'm saying is that the, um, oscillations, they, they transmit their excess energy to other
oscillations, right?
It's, like, there's, there's this, there's this global network where, um, where every array is connected, is, is connected to it.
Every other array is in some way.
Like, it's, it's, like, the, the, the, the pattern of connections actually changes constantly.
Um, as synapses, uh, grow, and, um, between, um, very active, um, groups of neurons.
And, um, it's interesting to think that, um, so memories don't always, like, they don't always, like, have the same, uh, firing pattern.
So, sometimes, the firing pattern will be, um, one neural circuit with a bunch of neurons in it.
Sometimes it'll be another, um, sometimes it'll be another, um, sometimes a different, you know, different set of neurons will be involved.
Right?
Like, maybe, maybe the two sets share, like, uh, something in common, like one character in column, in column, in, in common, but they are.
