=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0058y Macroscopic layout of brain a giant sensory processor
First recorded: 2021-11-09T22:21:50.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/2861d11c-d31d-4ab1-b168-c130e91c78bc
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Okay, so I thought of, like, um, an elephant, and each of the, and each of the elephant's feet is one of the incoming senses. Right? And so the idea is to draw, like, something, some sort of diagram that looks kind of like an elephant, where each of the legs goes to, to an eye, or a nostril, or an ear, or a mouth, and to draw, like, okay, so the heart of the elephant, so those are the elephant's legs, and the elephant's legs go up into the,
the thalamus, the hippocampus, and the anterinal cortex, like that loop. Right? But then, what goes to the thalamus then goes to the neocortex, and the neocortex. So the idea is that the neocortex is, um, is four sensory cortices, that all the, that the entire neocortex is, is stretched out as a sensory cortices from the thalamus, from the bottom, and then towards the top,
It's a, um, it's, that's where, I would say that's where, that's, that is where macroscopic patterns are studied, in a sense, um, because, or, or, it's weird because macroscale, macroscale, macroscale patterns.
So it's like the really big picture stuff is studied with that array on the outside, the sixth layer of the cortex.
But the first layer is for the incoming senses, right?
So the guru satori is going to come into the prefrontal cortex.
And the traditionally, traditionally, what you call, might call the three sensory, uh, the three primary cortices are the somatosensory cortex, the visual cortex, and the auditory cortex.
But, um, but the, the, the argument here is that, well, what's left after you add up the somatosensory cortex, the visual cortex, and the auditory cortex is, uh, the prefrontal cortex.
I mean, those are, like, that's, like, that's, that's, there are pictures of, like, you know, dividing the brain up into four major areas that are supposed to be the three primary, the sensory cortices, and the prefrontal cortex.
But the prefrontal cortex appears to be a sensory cortex, appears to be the cortex's smell.
Well, it appears that the, um, this story, anyway, so, so, so, long story short is, is, say, that maybe that's true of me, but it's not.
The idea, what I'm saying is that, like, the high-level decisions come from the whole, uh, sixth layer, not from the prefrontal cortex, but from the whole sixth layer.
So, it's, like, the top of the brain is making decisions in different categories.
The, the macroscopic decisions.
But what I'm saying is, like, so, the process of decision-making, though, is mechanical, deterministic process.
And, um, but you can react to, like, you do react to, to the, the different possible, the spectrum of possible futures that you're predicting.
Um, and, um, the kind of future that, sort of, seems like it's the most plausible, um, might be the one that wins out, you know?
It's, like, well, and, and that could be, that could be, like, what's most plausible is the one you like more, basically.
That's another way to put it.
The future that you like the best is probably the one you want to move towards, right?
And so, maybe your actual choice is some, like, calculation of where you want to be, right?
With, with some sort of, like, um, with all these, like, comparisons of micro-scale, macro-scale, and meso-scale patterns, right?
You know, so many, like, things to, to think through in life.
But I'm, sort of, suggesting that, that is, for human life, it's, like, you know, we have this, like, um, this range of patterns, and space is not,
the concept of space-time is not, um, fundamental to our brains, but our brains are, are learning this pattern from the world.
And that's why, like, you know, you see, like, this experiment where they will put you, put you in a VR headset,
and then through the VR headset, they'll put you into, like, a, a robot, and then they'll put the robot, like, behind you, yourself.
And so you'll get used to, like, being the robot that's behind your real self.
And, and, and these kinds of experiments, sort of, like, um, they kind of show us how the sense of where you are is, you know,
you can really become a non-local entity.
Thank you.
You
