=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0050y Spacetime reality as a whole - conversation
First recorded: 2021-12-01T04:07:42.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/175aac17-5932-4e1c-b7b0-dd6b04a10656
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Those things are capable of adjusting into the video game.
Obviously, the programming that leads the Pac-Man ghost to be on that is adjustable based upon what you as the player choose.
And similarly, the situation where the real people, like Trinity and Neo, are making choices, and then the game, the Matrix, is adjusting to them.
And what I argue in my book, The Leap to Wholeness, How the World is Programmed to Help Us Grow, Heal, and Adapt,
and from the paper that I published, Space-Time Paths as a Whole, is that because space-time is defined as a whole,
it's something that's existing as a whole, you're interacting not just with it in the present, but its whole history.
And the history is defined since you last observed it.
And that history can adjust as a whole, like the entire branch, you either interact with one branch or a different branch,
but not part of one branch or part of another branch.
So when you interact with the world, you're interacting with a world that falls into place in that moment to match a certain criteria.
And the whole world falls into place in that moment to match that criteria.
So there's a wholeness to the reality we experience, but it's adjusting up to the last second
to match the choices we make as the subjective game players.
So I want to give an example of this that maybe illustrates why I think this is so practical and personal for me.
So you're probably familiar with me as a musician.
I play music my whole life, and I play a song or two that I've written.
And in the past few months, I've been really sort of being recalled into playing music.
It's been really lovely.
I've had a lot of opportunities to play.
I was invited to play in a band.
And so that's all really fun and cool.
And I noticed this one night was a Halloween party.
I was invited to go to a Halloween party for my cousin.
And I show up, and I'm invited to be a musician.
And it's this really intimidating situation with a whole bunch of people that I've never met.
There's a piano sitting there in the middle of the room, and I'm supposed to play.
So I spend the first half an hour getting over my stage fright and sort of settling in.
And then I have a good time.
You know, it's basically sort of a mixed bag.
And I sort of walk away feeling like that was a useful experience, but not quite the optimal, right?
It was a Saturday night.
And a week later to the day, I find myself, which is a place I've played at before with my band, there's a piano there.
And so this time, I'm like in the same situation, right?
A piano in the middle of the room.
The point here is that this is literally a week later.
It's kind of like an experience.
A second time.
I go to play the piano, but the machine that plays the music, is that called the DJ machine or whatever?
A jukebox.
A jukebox, yeah.
It's playing super loud.
And it's like songs that I can't compete with.
It goes for like two.
So anyway, I can't get the courage to like get myself into the mix to play music.
The following week, Saturday night, I find myself at a Burning Man screening of a movie.
This time, I sort of got the message that there was like a simulation happening, right?
Three weeks in a row.
Similar situation.
I'm at an event with a lot of people.
This time, I brought my guitar.
I started just, before the movie started, it was just people.
I just started singing songs because it was kind of a campfire vibe.
People were kind of into it a little bit, mostly ignoring me.
And then the host of the movie decided, he said, hey man, come up and play on stage.
So he pulls me up there with a mic while the movie's sort of getting ready to be started.
And he just invited me to play what I was doing.
So I kept playing and played for half an hour.
I had a full set.
It really, he called me into a new place in myself to like trust in the songs that I knew how to play,
to sing, you know, with confidence and to just be happy with what I was doing.
And just not take on the pressure of like self-consciousness and all that stuff that I'm trying to let go of.
And it was the third week in a row, right?
And I came away from that experience really like that was what I was trying to.
So I want to point out that I think situations recur in our lives.
And obviously the situation is very different.
One night it was at a first friend's house.
The night it was at a bar.
Third night it was outdoors.
And this man, totally different situations, different people.
But the same inner process for me of what I'm trying to get to in my next up-leveling of life.
Which is, you know, obviously the up-leveling of the game level, right?
Getting to the next level of the game.
And so I walked away from that experience feeling like I get it.
I got a new understanding of where I'm trying to get to, who I'm trying to be, and how to do it.
And I would say I'm for the ensign sort of, so I don't know how everybody else feels about that repeatedness.
But I think that's a really crucial part of what the simulation is about.
And that it's adjusting to our choices to bring us those situations on our lives.
Can I just ask you a question, Matt?
That's kind of super interesting because I've had very similar encounters with the same thing.
It looks like there's a gun pointing at my head going, you need to level up.
I think sometimes here with the nature of the conversation around simulation is that it's being computed.
You know, that there's something, there is a programmer outside of us.
It has a mechanical feel to it.
And I'm not sure the distinction between consciousness and us up-leveling ourselves through a series of challenges,
maybe in terms of being reincarnated and inside the same lifetime,
and the idea that there is computability behind what's happening.
Well, I think, you know, if we really abstract away and get really sophisticated in our thinking,
what makes something mechanical?
Is it that it's made out of steel?
Or is it a predictability and a mechanism-ness to it, like a cause-and-effect nature of it?
And I think that, I'm sure there's movies like this, maybe The Matrix is one,
where the mechanism includes emotion, it includes spiritual insight.
I don't think that just because we have a spiritual life and a spiritual world that that takes away mechanistic nature of it.
I think actually synchronicity, the reason I study it with fervor is because I think it's a mechanism
which allows for consciousness to experience the learning that it's trying to experience.
It doesn't mean it's mechanical.
It does mean it's predictable.
Like, yoga is this spiritual path, and Buddhism is kind of similar.
That it's a spiritual path, but it's very based on reproducibility.
I think that's because it's essentially mechanistic.
With synchronicity, I think that you can expect synchronicities to happen in life,
and you can expect this up-leveling to happen once you reach certain criteria.
I think it's like collecting a number of coins in a level.
You know, it's like power to the machine.
You can launch yourself out of this level, and it's not forgiving.
Like, if you don't reach that level, you don't make it.
And so it's not like religion, I think, is making it to a new level.
Does that speak to your question?
Yeah, no, I think sometimes—no, and I think I agree wholeheartedly with that.
I think sometimes the idea of the simulation gets entangled with kind of the concept of advanced computers
having simulated the reality that we're in.
And that's when I start to get a little fuzzy, or I disagree with that concept.
If you don't mind, I just want to touch on and kind of edify.
So no speculation needed.
Like, we're not in control.
We're—anybody who understands neuroscience or how our brain actually functions, how our body is controlled,
our higher reasoning center is that cerebral cortex.
It's not—we're just a passenger.
When the system that's actually in control of your body is the autonomic nervous system.
It's the limbic system.
So that's your hypothalamus.
It sends all the inputs to your sympathetic nervous system to actually function your body.
So where we—you guys are operating under the assumption that we have free will.
We don't even have free will over our own bodies.
You know, all systems of survival and continuation are out of our conscious control.
We have no freedom to choose whether or not our heart's going to beat or we're going to breathe.
And funny, you know, if you've ever suffered a severe head injury, I had one.
I was—was disrupted.
I remember to breathe, and I would wake up gasping on the floor.
And it was—for about three weeks, it was—it was a really—well, a real eye-opener.
But, you know, we have—we—we don't have—when you get emotional and what, are you still getting—
You're all tied into your fighter flight.
We think we—we—we—we—we—
That's not true.
Well, well, okay.
So we just opened up, like, five Pandora's boxes as far as, like, what reality is, what consciousness is.
And I'm, like, debated for over 24 hours straight on some of those subjects.
And so that's not saying that those aren't good questions, but that they are tough to get definitive.
And as far as what I was saying, what I was going to do is moderate a little, is that we have some wonderful guests on stage, about six or seven people that haven't spoken yet.
So if you're new on stage and you would like to contribute a thought or question or comment, perhaps flash your mic, and then we'll try to get to all the new people on stage who raised their hand.
Future, do you have something to add?
And then I'll get to Eli and go from there.
I can give my patented simulation hypothesis a talk.
It might help, though.
You guys might, like—if you go to my Twitter, I pushed out an old comic image today that is kind of relevant.
It's just me standing on the earth kind of talking about, we just kind of woke up here, you know.
And simulation hypothesis is something that, you know, like, oh my God, there's a reality in there.
And just being kind of awed by our—and, you know, Matrix came out, kind of secretly, you start thinking, oh man, closet was like, you know, simulation of us.
Like, oh shit, I can talk about that now?
Nobody's going to think I'm crazy?
That was pretty great.
And, you know, I just—I pose this to you guys.
Like, put on your Sherlock Holmes detective, you know, hats.
And you just gotta go through this simple thought.
You know, jungle gym.
You know, space, pretty big.
We find ourselves here on Earth.
Awesome.
Time, pretty infinite and long.
We find ourselves here in time, in this moment.
Where do we find ourselves right before?
Well, we find ourselves right before this moment in time where we are literally going to be able to simulate whole realities.
By the time, 20 years from now, with GPTs and GANs and everything, we'll be able to simulate realities that are indistinguishable from our own.
Like, it will be crazy how the fidelity these realities will have.
I mean, I don't even know.
Some of the stuff I hear—who knows?
There might be brain jacking into those things.
Who knows what's going to happen?
So with that being said, right, all that infinite space, all that—
Before we invent that very thing which we could be inside of, that is too weird for me to ignore.
And hence, I place a high count on that simulation hypothesis.
What it is, what it's going towards, you know, it just seems like all those coincidences seem to add up to something too coincidental for me.
So, there you go.
There's my patented simulation hypothesis.
Very true, although especially if we can see it's very—it's tricky because that doesn't mean it definitely is.
It's just highly likely ways to look at it.
But, uh, Eli, did you have something to add?
Go ahead.
Yeah, so—so when it looked like I wasn't going to make it summarized, uh, I was supposed to finish just as the pandemic started, so it never got finished.
Um, particular topic—well, not the paper, the footnote was on this topic.
And, uh, so I could, uh, pin the tweet if you like, or I could read it out, whichever you prefer.
Okay, so—so I will—actually, I will do both.
...in this, and we want to get to the new people on stage who haven't spoken yet.
So, if you're new on stage, uh, grab the mic, flash the mic, and we'll try to get to the new people, then go back to PopCore after that.
So, uh, Nestin, go ahead.
...out of this thing.
Would a simulation have a random number generator in it?
Because it feels like there's two schools of thought.
Either everything is already played out and predicted, and there is some kind of super mega computer built around the star that's, like, simulating all of this.
Um, but I don't see a reason why a simulation would not have a, uh, a random number generator, because once you factor that in, uh, stuff like 2 to the power of 256 or 2 to the power of 128, the symmetric encryption, uh, once you go to those numbers, those numbers are bigger than the amount of total atoms in the universe.
So, so that means that even if it is a simulation, there would be a random factor to it which you cannot predict.
A lot of things in, uh, just in and of itself, because you would end up with math that the entire system cannot, you know, there's that, I haven't really finished this thought.
That's all I have to say.
Well, there, there, there are a lot of things that are just really difficult to calculate, uh, if you ever want to, to convince yourself of that, just look at, uh, uh, doing, doing, doing, like, a full, uh, you know, molecules that really challenging you.
So, uh, uh, um, at the very last, you know, we can't even, um, simulate water ways to go, um, water is really challenging.
Yeah.
Let's see, uh, much of this in a footnote, uh, so if anything, it's really just a, uh, way, oh.
So the simulation hypothesis is, is metaphysics masquerading as math, something of a cognitive dark pattern.
It rigs the dice in at least two ways, positing a relative infinity of simulated universes, positing all the simulations are equally likely, including as base reality.
Then, from this equivalence, it calculates that the likelihood of being in base reality is one over the quantity of one plus the number of simulations.
In point of fact, the reality of not a single, a single simulated universe has been established.
Prior to the simulation hypothesis, we took ourselves to be in base reality, but based on the line of reasoning being advanced, we are led to reject that.
Here's the thing.
On this line of reasoning, even those in base reality are led to reject the reality.
So, the simulation hypothesis fails catastrophically in the particular case of which was the prior presumption.
In other words, this is also elaborate, obfuscated, presumption shifting.
In base reality, it's pretty remarkable, considering we can also note that there is an elective affinity between feeling alienated and or feeling disempowered and being disposed to accept the irreality of one of the actual.
The other is that many people can be convinced of anything that is manifestly untrue.
So, if anything, it's reality, it's really just a simulacrum of an inherently unfalsifiable and defective on its face when viewed from the right perspective.
Side note, I actually agree with Boston's early work on the ethics of advanced molecular nanotechnology.
The topic of Keenan has just given much of my, sorry about my poor reading of...
Thank you, Saddleman Eli, so I can get my job.
Well, that's it, everybody.
Well, friends, a new theory of how he tries to explain the universe is this giant graph-based computer.
Yeah, there's this component there, too, that the universe is self-generated and it's this computer that generates itself.
And, uh, there, because it's computational, it, uh, it makes it, uh, very hard.
No, it makes it impossible for you to take a snapshot or take a slice off of it just because of the computational nature of it.
It makes it impossible to predict what's going to happen ahead.
Again, because of stuff like, I think, stuff like what Eli was saying, like, molecules going to the power of 20 and then going beyond that.
It just makes it very hard.
But then I asked a friend who had done his PhD at Harvard on quantum informatics, and all he said was, I think, Stephen Loffer and himself, his meds.
And that's why I didn't get a very good, uh, response to, uh, to that, but that's as far as I've gotten on it.
A couple people left that haven't spoken yet, so, uh, for JP, did you guys have anything to add?
Hi to JP. Hi, JP, how are you?
Hey, everybody.
Hope everyone's having a good night, and, uh, great to see you, Hazel.
Yeah, good to see you, too.
I, um, I'm so happy you, you're able to make it.
I'd love to hear what you have to say about, uh, the metaphors, um, you know, simulation theory.
A lot of it is, seems to be, um, intertwined.
A lot of people that are into, actually believe in the simulation, so it's very exciting.
It's a very interesting topic for me, to me.
So, yeah, uh, you want to say, you want to tell us what you think about this?
Yeah, I know, I appreciate the invite, you know, great to see some of the, uh, brilliant minds of Clubhouse here.
I see Future and Eli and Ryan, I feel like I'm in Romeroom.
Goodness, um, great, great minds here.
Shane, yourself, and Sierra, Rebecca, Mercy, just an all-star room.
So, um, I guess maybe I'll, I'll, I'll frame it in a kind of different way I'm looking at it, and, uh, I really appreciated some of the things that were said by Sky about, you know, we, we really can't say anything for a different, you know, in a definitive fashion.
We can just possibly, you know, just offer up some opinions on, on what we think.
And what I find fascinating about simulation theory and the way we experience life as humans right now, it feels, at least from my perspective, that we have a really strange capability to manifest reality with our minds.
That's a really strange concept in some fashions.
It's like saying I can grab a concept and treat it like an object.
I can grab, grab, and then just roll it, or I can just, you know, do things that, you know, things that just don't necessarily make sense, but we can often find a way to forge a path to those things.
And to me, that's one of the more fascinating things about this, that we truly have the ability to craft reality with our minds.
And that just puts me in a space where, you know, as with this great discussion where, you know, I am limitations that we're bound by, but also astonished by some of the things that we're able to do in light of them.
I guess one of the other aspects of this is that, you know, I think I heard one of our colleagues in the room speak about maybe autonomous systems, like breathing, and how if they aren't autonomous, we somehow find ourselves kind of offset.
That one again fascinates me, I guess, from a perspective of seeing and being, and then experiencing.
There was a moment in time where, personally, I had a strange epiphany, and as I found myself in a place that I shouldn't exist in, things occurred up and started to move pieces of reality away from where I was existing.
And then they noticed me and said, hey, you can't say that it wasn't the selfie yet, but it was like that, where we have the ability to craft glimpse of things that we really don't comprehend.
If we think we are able to then, this is dreaming that some people are able to utilize.
It's a discipline. It's something that can be taught. It's something that can be exercised.
It's kind of like most people don't understand that just like your body, you can exercise it to get it stronger.
It's just like your mind. You can do things to sharpen your skills.
Spiritually, you can expand those things, but in lucid dreaming, I say that we really don't know how that maybe affects us.
But it is certainly a discipline that, again, kind of puts me in the simulation theory, because people are able to go into dreams and control them.
It's fascinating.
Speaking of spirituality, with Buddhism, the idea there's no right perspectives, I think there is a valid perspective to say there is no self, or that the self is a simulation that is generated by the physics of your mind.
And so the idea of who is in control, who is making decisions, who's observing, I think that if you see it from the perspective that there's no real self or the self is a simulation, there's no passenger that's separate from the functioning of the organism of the being.
If you see it from the universe or a hypothetical matrix like reality, that's a simulation thing.
And then we say, you know, some of the examples that we were talking about earlier with like reality, just like the day to day, our lives, reality and consciousness in the universe is a lot like a simulation like that anyway.
And, you know, all these things that we just mentioned, it just gets what that gets into, whether that's an imagined order like money that doesn't even exist, or an imagined order like government, that's just kind of like something that we kind of loosely agree upon.
You know, there's all these things that are real because we say that they are, and they work because we agree on them internally as an individual and as bigger and bigger groups.
But then as you try to divide it up as like, is this real, is this real, is this real, the only way to get to a definitive answer, at least I believe, and then it'd be interesting to hear from the others and maybe Shane and anyone else new on stage hasn't spoken yet, is at least what I believe is a pragmatic view.
Because the reason you have to look at it pragmatically is because we have such limited access to definitive, absolute knowledge or objective information, but pragmatically, we can say the goal of life for starters is to survive as individuals and as a species and as the universe, as the biosphere, etc.
And then there are goals from there, like to get better at that or to get better at life and those kind of things.
And then once you can put it in a pragmatic, game-like paradigm, then even though you can't say for sure whatever real is or whatever consciousness is, it can come together in sort of like affordances or things that help achieve the goals of getting better at survival and getting better at being good creatures, whatever that is.
But anyway, I want to hear from, go ahead.
Yeah, really cool points there.
And what's coming to my mind and heart right now is like, well, I say heart because what I want to talk about is like the role of heart.
And, you know, as we think about the unfoldment of the metaverse and, you know, I think there's this beautiful sort of beauty and a danger to it.
The beauty is that by spending time in places like Altspace, like for Burning Man in 2020 during the pandemic in Altspace, there was this great reenactment of the Burning Man community.
And it was just an incredible experience of connection with a lot of people that I never met before.
And I think that that opens gateways to communication styles and new ways of being that people don't have access to in their everyday life because they've got habitual relationships and certain ways of interacting in their physical body.
That's why I like Clubhouse, because I can sort of enact in a way that doesn't engage my visuals and only the audio.
And it's a different experience.
And it allows me to, you know, do some healing in some ways and to try on different personalities that I wouldn't otherwise.
So I think that there's a real benefit towards the, for evolution from a virtual reality, augmented reality experience.
I think also that those folks who are on the leading edge, we need leaders in this space who recognize the connection to whatever you want to call it, but spiritual principles or self-awareness or mindfulness, whatever that looks like for each of us.
It might be different, but it has to do with understanding what the purpose of these tools, the purpose of becoming more powerful with augmented reality, the purpose of being connected.
You know, the obvious detriment of social media can be that we amplify non-truths and have polarization, but there's a lot of positives, too, to social media and connectedness.
I think augmented reality is the same way.
So we need to continue to bring in humanness and have leaders in the space, thought leaders, who model vulnerability, model good, you know, good room leadership in clubhouses, like a thing.
You know, being a good room moderator is an example of how to turn a digital space into a healing or human or educational space.
And sometimes that doesn't happen, and you can see the outcomes are not as good.
So I just want to emphasize that, and I think people have been talking around that as well, other people, too, the importance of wisdom in the virtual world.
Thanks. I'm Sky and I'm complete.
One of the new people on stage is not going, I would like to go.
This is Dr. Youngblood.
Yeah, sure, go ahead.
So, okay, so I want to dive into this a little bit deeper than I think what we have, away from some of the science and maybe some people refer to this as make-believe or simulation theory, right?
Okay. So I'm sitting here wondering, I remember when I was a young boy, I went to, what's the thing called, a park, a swim park, a water park, and I saw a young man there who didn't have arms.
He was born with no arms up to the shoulder, and I don't remember seeing anybody at that park.
I don't care what kid it was or what old man was watching young women walk around in bathing suits.
I don't remember seeing nobody with a smile on their face bigger than this kid.
This kid was enjoying himself to the fullest, and he couldn't swim.
He had no arms, and he was all the way in the deep side of the pool walking under the water, and I could not stop watching this kid.
So today I'm sitting here thinking to myself, what would he simulate?
Would he simulate having arms?
Would he simulate holding or hugging somebody or receiving or picking up something?
Would he, in his world, would he not still have arms?
Would he just leave himself the way he is, or would he improve himself?
So, you know, all these thoughts are in my head.
The other thing I'm thinking on is if you were in 500 B.C. or during 1692 or thereabouts during the Salem Witch Trial,
if whatever God you believed in or whatever Messiah you believed in at that time was a programmer,
they would be a horrible programmer to have simulated such a thing that existed during that particular time.
If you were coming up doing women's rights or today with minorities and gay rights,
what in your world would you simulate that would be completely different than where you are right now?
If you were a guy with a small penis, would you simulate having a big penis,
and a woman would simulate you being something different?
I mean, what would you do?
Would you stay in your sane state of mind?
Would your eyes be the same color?
You know, would you have to brush your teeth or take a shower?
At what point would you take yourself beyond the normal?
And would you allow yourself to have boundaries and rules?
Because in all these programs, there is rules, right?
You have to have programs and rules.
A code can only do so much.
It can only extend to so many points.
And I'm sitting here and I'm thinking to myself,
how many times in history have we been wrong with science?
Even on the wrong side of science today with COVID,
even on the wrong side of science when it comes to all the mascarial diseases
from HIV to Ebola to so on, how many times are we wrong?
When I was a kid, Pluto was a planet.
Now today, Pluto is not a planet.
So, you know, we have to push eggs.
Black men shouldn't eat eggs because it causes high cholesterol.
Then I find out I can eat eggs because it's not the egg that's causing the high cholesterol.
At what point do we go past the state of this simulation?
And what are you getting out of it?
Do your simulation get to cross other people's simulation?
And if so, how?
As I said before, if you're dating somebody and they're not satisfied with you,
and you're satisfied with them,
do they improve you in their simulation?
And in the real world, they are suffering.
To what point do we push the boundaries of it?
Do we, if the whole world was a simulation now,
is it coded in based on every messiah,
whether it's Allah or Jesus or Buddha or whoever it is?
The famine that's happening in the Middle East right now,
was that wrote into the code that these people have to suffer?
Or the tsunami that happened off of India some years back
and more than 100,000 people died?
Or what's going on in Haiti right now?
Or with cancer right now?
At what point in time do we push the boundaries
to say this is what this is and this is what this is?
And in my opinion, are we allowed to have boundaries?
I don't think so.
I think if it's something that you're going to be able to make up,
why should you have boundaries?
Unless you're playing in somebody else's simulation.
Unless you're in their world, in their spiritual realm,
in their holistic realm.
Even if it's phased over into reality,
do you get to say, okay, do you get to have a safe word?
Who on this stage wants to literally be a gangster?
For real.
I mean, literally.
In your real life, you would nowhere near be a gangster.
But in this other world, you get to be a gangster.
You get to be a fool, fledged, hoodlum, thug,
whatever you want to be, and that's how you see yourself.
I know police officers who really, I'm not joking when I say this,
they really want to be gangsters.
They have the other side of their life, that they are protectors,
and they have to walk a certain spectrum of things,
but they really want to get a G-Ride, put some rims on it,
make it flex, make it bounce, you know, and carry a weapon,
and have women, and so on and so forth.
This is what they consistently think about,
but they are playing this other role in the reality of it.
So, I want to know from people on this stage,
or people in the audience,
based on what I just talked about,
at what point can we push the boundaries of it
past just the conversation of the science of it?
Because, I mean, we're allowed to do that, right?
I mean, I just said everything I said.
Am I simulating now, or is this how I really am?
I mean, this is what I would like for us to kind of take this,
if that's possible.
Even if it's just for a few minutes, I would like to know.
Yeah, I'd love to respond to that.
This is Sky.
Yeah, I love what you brought up,
and the way you shared it.
I think that that's kind of what I was trying to get at around wisdom,
that as I experience more experiences as a human being,
and try to learn from them,
that's kind of the confusing point that keeps coming to me,
is that, like, if I were to choose a different life,
would I choose anything different?
Or would I actually, because, you know,
I would say my life is frustrating a lot.
You know, I get really frustrated, and there's difficulties.
But actually, when I really look objectively,
would I choose a different set of problems?
You know, there's a metaphor of walking into a party,
hanging up your coat on the wall.
That's all your troubles.
You hang them up on the wall, go in, have a good time.
When you leave the party, you can take any coat you want,
but you choose your own coat,
because those are the troubles that you chose.
And so that really speaks to me.
It's sort of the wisdom of,
and that's kind of the danger of having a simulation,
is that people would think that they can get rid of their problems
by simply changing the simulation, you know,
and that your story about the boy with no arms at the swimming pool
is really illustrative.
We don't really know what makes us happy.
We think that we know what's going to make us happy.
We strive for that.
And maybe we're right.
But a lot of times, when I get to that point of happiness,
and then I, you know, 20 minutes later, I'm no longer happy.
I'm on to the next thing.
So I think there's something about happiness that we don't understand.
So if we're trying to simulate the world,
we should try and understand what the happiness goal is to begin with
before we start messing with it.
Otherwise, we're going to create situations that we don't really want
and think that we're fixing ourselves,
but actually create situations that we're really unhappy with.
So I really appreciate the example you brought up,
and that it points to, you know,
are we really, do we really know what we're striving for as human beings?
And for me, it points to having more humility.
Like, I don't really know.
And I've got to go through the striving
rather than just try and fix it on the surface.
Thank you. I'm Sky. I'm complete.
I'll jump in.
I don't know.
I think that, so, I think you've got to know.
Like, you know, JP brought up a really interesting thing.
You know, he was like, I like that.
You know, he tripped out and, like, saw these people
or the entities, like, level designing reality.
That's a really interesting thought.
You know, I think we do have, you know, Sky, based on all your rules,
I think we have that ability to some extent.
I mean, we do that every day.
It's like, man, I'm thirsty.
Let me go get a glass of water.
It's like, okay, cool, you do that.
Like, that's just what happens.
Thought, you know, turns into action.
And I think one of the keys to do it well, you know, I've been lucky.
I've kind of been able to push and pull reality better than most.
You know, Jobs said that.
Like, Steve Jobs said that.
It was some point in an interview that always made me kind of,
made my ears perk up when he said that.
He's like, once you kind of understand you can bend reality,
you can do it more and more and more.
You know, I think one of the things to do it, like,
like, I don't know who that last speaker was, is one,
you have to be at peace with all of your past.
You know, you've got to realize this moment in time is all you have, right?
And from there, you know, it's about visualizing what you really want
to kind of have happen.
Now, whether or not it will happen, whether or not this is a simulation,
whether or not this is just quantum, you know, whatever,
or just, you know, per chance, who knows?
It's a good way just to live life anyway.
And you get that visualization and, you know, maybe, maybe that's this,
you know, we can't know for sure, but like, you know,
the moderator said and JP said, it's like we can only kind of give each
other's experiences to each other and offer these little tidbits of,
I mean, Sky collects this stuff for his books and JP's telling us how he's
seeing the underlying nature of reality.
I can just share my own experience, like getting a vision,
being at peace with your past, having a very clear vision of moments that you
want to manifest in your future allows you to kind of, you know,
get to things like those things, you know, and, and, and, you know,
it's just funner living life that way.
I can just say it's, it's funner to think about it.
It's in a simulation.
Sure.
There's, I guess there's dangers that you guys can have, but I don't know.
I guess I've made video games my whole life.
So I can be very comfortable thinking that I'm in one.
It just seems easy, easier that way for that rapper.
But, but yeah, it's a, you know, and, and regardless of this,
true, it's just a good way to live what life is,
is really try to self-actualize.
So anyway, I want to add to what Sky said.
I think Sky said something very insightful about, about happiness being the goal.
And I, I, I would like to actually see if we could rephrase that.
You know, what if completeness is the goal?
And if we can use completeness as sort of the angle that we're going to use
to approach this, then, um, we can actually now use Goodell's theorems of,
uh, consistency and incompleteness as the, as the benchmark to gauge this.
Um, what are your thoughts on that, Sky?
Uh, so when I, I think of the word wholeness,
but we're probably saying the same thing that, you know,
wholeness is something that is sort of undefinable
because it can mean different things to different people.
What it's going to make me whole is different from what's going to make you whole
and what's going to make me whole right now.
It's going to be different from what's going to make me whole later.
You know, I need a meal right now, but later I need sleep
or I need a companionship now, or later I need to feel successful at work.
And wholeness, I think ultimately comes down to some kind of like self-expression
and calling down to the depths of our soul
and be becoming who we really want to be in the world.
Um, so I, I do think that, that, that you, you brought up a good point,
which is that we're not actually after happiness or satisfaction or pleasure,
but we can experience all those things from, uh, a pursuit of wholeness
or, uh, uh, learning about wholeness.
And to me, that's the goal of the simulation is to become more complete human beings
and find that wholeness.
Hi Sky, okay, now that's amazing.
Okay, now let's add one more thing.
So, whatever, it's not just about finding what makes you complete,
but it's about what makes you complete and consistent.
And if we can use that to be our benchmark,
then the question becomes, you know,
do simulations account for like perceived evolution, for example?
So, you know, and what I mean by that is like how,
so what, what I mean by that is basically are,
is this thing that, this thing that is the oil, the engine
for what we call evolution or what we call whatever,
uh, is it system independent?
You know, how do we, how do we program the interaction of systems
that are in different levels of the gradient of,
of intelligence or whatever consciousness I should want to call it?
The way I see things is that there are choices that are conscious
that people make, and there are choices that are subconscious.
Now, as to how the subconscious choices happen,
that is a whole other thing.
But, but at the same time,
people have been thinking about this for thousands of years.
So, so when I look at the ancient philosophers,
my, my favorite one is, uh, Epicurus.
It's, it's E-P-I-C-U-R-U-S.
And, uh, Epicurus has a really interesting saying.
And the saying is that, uh,
say to yourself what, what you want to be,
and then do what you have to do.
And it's really interesting because Epicurus himself
was born a slave,
and then he moved to Rome,
and then was able to open his own school,
and then stuff went down in Rome,
so he had to leave,
and was crippled at one point,
and then moved back to Greece,
and then, uh, his teachings live on to this day.
So, as someone that was born a slave,
and told himself he had to do what he had to do,
uh, I find it very interesting
because I think he figures something out
that if you,
if you talk to your subconscious,
then you can get to do stuff as well,
even though you can't really predict
what it's, um,
what it's going to do.
Yeah.
So, I'll just leave it at,
I'll just leave it at that, actually.
I want to follow up with that,
and what Future Meme said about,
um,
about,
sorry, I lost it.
What was it?
Tell me.
Ben?
Oh, wait.
Oh, yeah,
not,
not trying to artificially manipulate the matrix
as if there's some way to do it from outside.
I don't think we can get outside the matrix
and manipulate it.
I think the way we manipulate it
is through practices and disciplines of change,
and so Future Meme,
yes, we can change ourselves,
we can evolve,
and I think that's what you were saying,
and we do that through
the tried and true principles
that we know of as humanity,
whether it's our spiritual traditions
or religious
or our own practice of,
you know,
enjoyment or whatever it is,
but I think that's what those traditions
are really pointing to,
is how do we use the matrix
to up-level and change our lives,
and it's fully consistent
with the mechanisms of change.
It's not like,
I mean,
the metaverse is just a way
to accelerate that process
by exploring different ways of being
so you can actually choose a new way of being,
but still it's a process of,
it's kind of like the difference between,
you know,
you can spend time
doing artificial stimulants and drugs
and learning about,
you know,
artificial states of mind
through psychoactive substances,
and then,
for me,
moving towards meditation
and mindfulness
as a way of deepening
those experiences
was very powerful,
and I stopped doing
some of those psychoactive substances
and started meditating
and doing other practices from yoga,
and that deepened
the sort of insights
that I started
with those shortcuts.
So I think
part of what we're saying
is in the amplification
or transformation
of our selves
in the matrix,
we can do practices
and we can take shortcuts,
we can try to shortcut it,
but I don't think
that really works.
Ultimately,
we've got to go through
the process of transformation
that's built into
the matrix itself,
and that's what we call life.
That's my perspective.
So,
I think I could
throw this in there real quick.
Yeah,
go ahead,
Jake.
I want to hear from
the new people.
So,
yeah,
go ahead,
Jake.
Awesome.
And doctor wanted to speak too.
So I,
so I,
I can wait,
I can wait.
I have a,
oh,
Thanks,
doctor.
I appreciate it.
I'm not going to stay long.
I just wanted to put into
a unique perspective.
I used to think
a lot about
what you learned
in Japan.
Things that are simulated
in a world,
and we enter
in and out these worlds
two hours,
three hour max,
right?
We do that with the fair,
when we go to the state fair
or the world fair.
We do that when we go
to a circus.
We do that when we go
to Six Flags.
We do that when we go
to Disney.
We do that when we go
to Waterworld
or,
or dinner playhouse.
We do these simulations
in a physical form
all the time.
Sometimes
if,
uh,
uh,
for those people
who watch porn,
you do that.
For those who
do,
gonna know you're gonna
do something romantic
on Valentine's Day,
you do that.
Where do you allow
the boundaries
to not be pushed?
If,
for your happiness,
for your sanity,
for your world
to be better financially,
wherever the case may be,
where do you allow it?
Because some of us
take the rules
and we take it
and we say,
okay,
these rules apply to you.
They don't apply to me,
so I'm gonna push
the boundaries
of these rules.
And if you push
the boundaries
of these rules
further than anybody else,
then you're
considered a pioneer.
If you push
the boundaries
just a little bit,
then you're a criminal.
So,
where do you stop
and where do you know
the difference in that?
And then if you get
enough people
on board with you,
even if you push
the boundaries
to the point
of where a criminal
will push the boundaries
and you get enough
people to do that,
now somebody
will come in
and they won't
wanna make a law
or make a bill
about it.
Energy are a different word
instead of energy.
So,
so,
so,
yes,
because,
well,
technically you can say
that energy is
emergent,
right?
Uh,
uh,
it,
it could be
anything.
And,
um,
so,
well,
hypothetically,
let's say,
uh,
a different civilization
existed and they
came up with their
own representation
of nature
and,
uh,
it wasn't
Einstein's equations
of energy
and its relationship
to speed of light,
et cetera,
et cetera.
And it was some
other notation,
some other,
you know,
representation
that gave them
a good model
to,
you know,
to model
emergence,
model,
uh,
interaction,
model evolution,
et cetera,
et cetera.
And,
and,
and,
and they were able
to use that,
uh,
to represent nature
in,
in,
from their perspective.
So my question is then,
how do we account for that,
uh,
in relation to how we represent
the universe
from our perspective,
given that,
given that it's almost like,
uh,
uh,
we have to go beyond
the idea of,
of energy.
Does that,
if that makes any sense?
Yeah,
that's actually,
I could comment on that quickly.
There's actually a structure
known as an adinkra,
which is an error correcting code.
So if you want to,
uh,
Google that,
I would,
uh,
recommend you,
uh,
look up the term
A-D-I-N-K-R-A-S.
And then those systems
or,
or models,
mathematical models
actually generate
the physical laws,
uh,
by their
very application.
So it's a very interesting,
it has a very beautiful
graphical,
uh,
representation as well.
So that's like the next
thing that you would want
to look at.
And that is quite the leap
in terms of,
uh,
what we think the universe is,
that the physical laws
themselves emerge
from error correcting codes
is,
pardon the phrasing,
but it's fucking amazing.
And it's probably the most
wonderful thing
that I've ever seen
where we can take
human,
the human mind,
human intuition,
and go beyond
the physical realm
and explore something
that we thought
was unphysical,
but it actually
generates physical reality.
It's probably the most
magical thing
that I've ever come across.
I've never come across
anything more fundamental
than that which
generates the laws
themselves.
Yeah,
that's very interesting,
Io.
That's,
uh,
error correcting.
I know that that's a big
thing in quantum
computing,
and people are looking
at that in terms of
cosmology as well
from the simulation
hypothesis.
And I wanted to respond
to,
to,
um,
is it
Wynne,
or Alexander?
Yes,
Alex,
it's Ngoop.
Alex.
Great.
Thank you.
And,
um,
you know,
what comes to mind
when we think about
what's,
what's deeper than energy
or what else could there
be to describe things
than energy?
Um,
you know,
information is
essentially the
organization of energy,
and in my
trying to research
synchronicity
as a phenomenon,
you know,
synchronicity is a
meaningful
coincidence.
Two,
two events that
happen simultaneously
or a coincidence
of two objects
that is meaningful
in some way.
And the meaning
from it obviously
has some kind of
subjective perspective
or aspect to it.
So,
the meaning
comes from
a juxtaposition
of two things,
and,
you know,
from a physics
perspective,
uh,
you know,
like,
here's an example.
From a physics
perspective,
there's really
very little difference
between
when,
if it's election
day in the
United States,
which happens
on Tuesdays,
there's very little
difference from
a physics perspective
between Tuesday
and Wednesday.
But from a
human experience
perspective,
from a meaningfulness
perspective,
there's an enormous
difference because
you can't cast
your ballot on
Wednesday.
It's too late.
But Tuesday,
you can still
cast your ballot.
So you can affect
the direction
of an election,
um,
on Tuesday,
but not on
Wednesday.
And that can
have tremendous
difference of
outcome down the
line.
So,
there's a
meaningfulness to
that,
to that separation
of 24 hours.
And so I think
when you talk
about,
um,
another civilization
could have,
you know,
sort of bypassed
an understanding
of energy,
which is sort
of a reductionist
way of looking
at things.
Energy can be
reduced to
its pieces,
and that's why
we say it can
be conserved.
You know,
you can add up
this potential
energy to this
kinetic energy,
and you get a
total energy.
But when you
talk about
meaningfulness,
you can't add
it in the same
way.
It's qualitative.
And I think
you could have
a whole
civilization that
had a physics
of meaningfulness.
I think that
synchronicity is a
cause and effect
of meaning.
It's not that,
you know,
I have a friend
that had a ring
on her finger.
This is a
synchronicity story.
She had a ring
on her finger,
which had a blue
stone in it,
and she was
trying to figure
out what the
stone was,
so she wrote
to her jeweler.
This is after
like many months
of trying to
figure it out.
She finally
writes to her
jeweler with a
photograph.
She never
hears back
from her
jeweler.
The same day
she goes to
the salon to
get her nails
done, and
after the
appointment, the
person asks
her for her
stamp card to
get a credit
for the
appointment.
She reaches
in her purse
and pulls
out her
stamp card.
It's actually
the jeweler's
business card,
and on the
back it has
the words
blue topaz,
the name of
her stone.
She realizes
that she got
the answer to
her question,
but it wasn't
direct cause and
effect, right?
The jeweler
didn't write her
back and tell
her to look in
her purse for
the card.
She found
it from an
accident, from
a different
scenario.
So I would
say that there's
no causality
there, but
there's a
sort of
correlation that
we maybe
associate with
the correlation
of quantum
mechanics, of
quantum systems.
Correlation is a
very tenuous
kind of thing
that's not
causality, but
from a
meaningfulness
point of view,
I would say
there is a
cause and
effect, a
totally
different type
of non-physical
cause and
effect of
meaning, where
the intention
that she
had to
find this
information and
the action
that she
took to
pursue the
information made
it so that a
synchronicity was
more likely to
happen where
the information
showed up in
her hands in
the form of
the business
card.
And so this
model that I
use as a
tree, where
you're moving
along the
tree, you're
not actually
causing the
situations to
happen as
you go, but
the future
branches which
have apples on
them, the
fruit of the
outcomes, sort
of weighs down
and increases the
likelihood of a
situation to
happen.
So there's a
way in which
you can have a
causality of
meaning, even
if it's not
direct cause and
effect.
And this is
all not verified
experimentally, I'm
being speculative
here, but that's
what comes to
mind when we
talk about going
a level beyond
quantitative energy
conservation and
looking more at
the qualitative
nature of
things.
I thought of
another perspective
which is that if
we can't use the
word energy, we
could use the
word force, like
the force in
Star Wars,
right?
It's this, it's
this, force is
everywhere and it
binds everything.
And so the idea
is information is
the quantity, is
a quantization of
patterns and energy
or force and so
some other
civilization could
make the argument
that information is
just a perspective on
the force.
Anyway.
Scott, let me write
on that statement
you just made
about the topaz.
I like that
example.
It's a brilliant
example, by the
way.
Let me, when it
comes to
Einstein, he kind
of pushed the
boundaries with
quantum mechanics
to what we have
today, what the
limited understanding
of what we have
today, even
though he learned
from some of his
mentors and some of
their theories were
not correct.
But what I have to
write on your
example, Scott, one
of the things I
think Einstein
did that really
pushed the
boundaries more
so than his
relativity theory
was the way he
looked and the
way he behaved.
It made you,
because most, at
that time, most
scientists were
double-breasted
suits.
They had, you
know, clean-cut
hair.
They was not
any way looking
like they just
woke up.
Einstein always
looked like he
just woke up.
So his hair was
all over the
place.
This also
pushed the
boundaries of
Dyson today.
What's the
guy that
wrote, oh
God, the
Harvard guy.
I can't
remember his
name.
It'll come to
me.
From Don
King to
whatever, it
started pushing
the boundaries
in the science
world.
It was already
there in that
cultural world
from blacks and
some other
people.
Hair was used
as this style,
but it became
this phenomenon
thing that
in a genius
world, you
don't have to
behave and
look like
everybody else.
It is not
required for
you.
I'm going to
be honest with
y'all about
something.
I know right
now when I go
to meetings,
I normally
don't wear a
suit.
Unless I'm
going to see a
head of state,
I don't wear
suits.
The reason why
is because I
now know that I'm
one of the most
important people in
the meeting and
I'm not going to
put on a suit
because I don't
like sweating.
I don't like a
rope around my
neck, which is
called a tie.
It's always in my
mind, what if
something grab a
hold of that
thing and choke
the hell out of
me?
So, you know,
or if I'm in
an altercation and
somebody grab it
and twist it up in
their hand and
now my face is a
punching bag.
I want us to
understand that
every little aspect
of everything
plays this
position and
plays this
role.
Einstein, his
formula, yes,
it made a huge
impact in some
world when it
comes to energy
with some other
stuff with
solar energy,
all these
different things.
It played a
huge role, but
it also gave us
a different
perspective that
you don't have
to behave by
the boundaries
because he
didn't do that.
He did not do
that.
He did not
behave within
the boundaries of
everything that was
set out.
I'm not saying
that we don't
have to follow
rules.
Please don't
misconstruire
what I'm saying
there, but I'm
saying you have
in order to get
what you want
out of life,
you have to
push the
boundaries.
Even within the
boundaries, you
have to be able
to push it.
And if you don't
do that, you're
not going to get
out of it what
you deserve or
what you want.
And in Mercedes
also, in some
people's cases,
the way you
design, the way
you build, the way
you think, the way
you've been
developed, the
way your childhood
develop you, some
of us, you need
other people to
help you get
there.
You can't get
there by
yourself.
You have to
surround yourself
with a certain
group of people
to get into
this simulation
of whatever you
want out of
life.
It's just a
part of who
you are and
what you have
to do to get
there.
Some of the
biggest names
