=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0051y a few thoughts on the future
First recorded: 2021-11-30T04:03:25.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/4dec7181-8c51-4edc-a4b3-c745d24f3af0
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
All right. Sending us into space, for example, you know, as Demis Habesis from DeepMind says, if we solve intelligence, we solve everything else.
We'll all, what you'll be able to get, what you'll be able to purchase in this future world where robots are massively increasing the amount of production in the world is just purchasing power like you've never imagined.
And you'll be able to, everyone will be able to afford a spaceship. And, um, but yeah, so I think that our reality and, uh, the metaverse, uh, our reality simulation, the metaverse will blend together and merge and, um, we'll see the metaverse in our real world and, uh, and technology will be much more exciting.
Micah, can you say that one more time? Sure. Um, so welcome everybody back to the room. I was just saying that the, um, the, the future, if we jump forward 30 years from now, um,
um, the, you know, this started off with a, uh, uh, conversation about the metaverse from Dune and how that connects to the matrix and how the matrix connects to the, um, uh, to the, to the, to the idea of simulation and, um, and, and, and Sky Nelson has this really great idea about, uh, you know, basically a quantum physics based, um, idea that, um, that we each in our own virtual reality, our own, uh, video game and these video games are interacting.
Um, but I was saying that in the future, we're going to have, you know, self-aware, sensitive, phenomenally conscious robots that will do all the work possible on earth, accelerating the development of medicine and technology.
As Demis Habisi says, if we solve intelligence, we solve everything else. We're all going to be rich compared to what our purchasing power is today. You'll be able to afford your own spaceship.
And, um, interestingly, our, our future reality or simulation, reality simulation, uh, will merge and blend with the metaverse so that we can see the metaverse in a real world, basically everywhere.
And, um, we're going to be able to see the metaverse here.
