=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0068y Olfactory Signals Brain
First recorded: 2021-11-06T21:28:47.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/3e6655cb-9e9c-4ec7-87ab-ecee3a4230c4
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Okay, so let's see. I'm just trying to, I'm just, so I'm just kind of browsing like little images a little bit to try to see if I can get a better image of what's happening here. It's a smell, let's see, a big system of the brain.
So, yeah, so the idea here, Bea, you're the only person in the room right now that I can see.
The idea is, okay, so what comes into your eyes, right, that travels along the optic nerve to the thalamus and then to the back of your brain, like the, the, the occipital lobes, right, and then those signals travel upwards to the parietal lobes.
And then what comes in from your tongue, that goes to the somatosensory cortex.
And what comes in from your fingers, the sense of touch, that goes to the somatosensory cortex.
And then from the somatosensory cortex, that, those signals travel backwards towards the parietal cortex where they connect with the, with the signals coming from the visual cortex, right?
But the idea is that the signals travel into, like, V1.
It's like, you, the, each of the cortices has, like, a V1, like, for visual cortex.
There's an M1 for the motor cortex.
There's a, this is, like, layer one of the neocortex.
And so, incoming input patterns go to, like, layer one of the neocortex in the visual or the audio cortex or the, um, olfactory cortex.
Uh, well, I'm sorry, no, you know, I guess, okay, so I meant, sorry, I didn't mean to say olfactory cortex.
But basically, that's kind of what I'm wondering, is I'm wondering if we can think of, um, the olfactory cortex as, uh, or if we think of the, um, the orbital frontal cortex as, like, the V1, as, like, analogous to V1 of the, um, it has multiple, it should have multiple layers.
It should have six layers, right?
Just like any other part of cortex.
And so, in theory, you might have signals coming from the thalamus that go to, um, like, I guess it would be area O1, and then they would travel to area O2, right?
So, let's look at O1 orbital frontal cortex layer one, right?
Uh, so the thalamus and the cortical regions, there are, there's something happening there.
You said the thalamus and the what?
What was the last thing you said?
I just said there's something going on there, there's something going on there, but in there's, like, the subcortical, yeah, like, whatever, I have no idea.
Is it, it, I don't know.
But you said where, you said there's something going on where, where is where?
With the, and, like, the, um, you know, the, the cortical.
So, at the, at the very least.
The frontal cortical area, you know, the front, the frontal area, right?
The orbital frontal cortex.
Yes.
Okay, so something, yeah, so, so the orbital frontal cortex is receiving signals from the thalamus, which is receiving signals from the, uh, olfactory bulb, right?
Right?
Right.
So, yeah.
So, can we say that the olfactory cortex is, like, analogous to the, um, uh, the, because in between, so in between your eyes and the thalamus is the, um, is, is like a, is like a wired connection.
And that's the, it's called the optic nerve, right?
It's this dedicated connection that goes from the, your thalamus directly to your eyes.
And, um, and there is a dedicated connection that goes from your nose directly to the thalamus.
Not, not directly, but there is, there is a connection that goes from, uh, I don't know, it might be a direct connection.
I just, I guess I don't understand it, but it seems to go from the olfactory bulb to the amygdala and to, uh, a couple of different areas.
And then those areas, um, and, and one of the pathways goes to the thalamus, but, so the OSC receives projections from the primary olfactory, oh, wait a second.
Is it formed by the, is it meant to, what, forming the, never mind, never mind, too much?
Well, you can, go ahead and finish that if you want, I'll just mute myself.
No, nothing really to say.
It's kind of strange, but loop-dee-loop, and where, if it's, okay, so from the olfactory cortex, if it doesn't, like, route to thalamus, then, where's it going?
Where are the signals going from there?
Are they going both places?
Are some going in one place and some going in the other?
Um, okay, so I, so originally, so before, so before I started looking at this today, someone said that they go, they connect to the, um, to the neocortex in five, through five different ways.
But, but what I'm looking at today is, it's not just the neocortex, they connect to the, um, like, the entorinal cortex, and the entorinal cortex is connected to the hippocampus and the amygdala.
Um, and there's all this trap between the amygdala and the, and the hippocampus, uh, and the hippocampus and the, uh, entorinal cortex.
And, so some of the information from the nose feeds directly into that.
So, yeah, I guess you could, I guess you could smell gas, and that would, that would, like, you could become, like, uh, a really toxic smell,
a really dangerous smell could, could, uh, cause your, uh, your brain to become very alert and take action very fast.
And you might want to get out of there really fast.
And that's, I think that's part of why it connects to the, um, the entorinal cortex and the, um, the hippocampus and the amygdala.
Um, and, um, yeah, so I, I, I'm, I have more, I have more, really more questions than answers at, at, at this point.
It's really interesting.
Yeah, I think that's kind of usually the way it goes for me.
More questions than answers.
Well, when you're like, I just have this one little question, and then you end up with 500,000 questions that you really answer,
and then you have to, then you're on your way to do, like, something.
Right.
Let's see.
And what, so what I'm doing, where,
So there is spatial and temporal coding.
You're seeing that?
Yeah, I mean, I think every,
Like, picture and.
I think pretty much every sensation, every, um,
Every, every, uh, sensor, every sense sensor, right?
From, from, from the eyes to the ears to the smell,
is going to be collecting, um,
both spatial patterns and temporal patterns.
So it's going through, the information's really, or the data's going through a lot of coding
to be formatted as information to build out all of this coding.
Oh, this picture really turned out so you don't, uh, uh, okay, let's try it.
I might have been happier than I am.
Not knowing?
Yeah, no, I mean, I, I, I can tell you some other stuff you'd probably not know, rather not know about.
So the things that, like, interest me.
With, I mean, with regard to COVID.
As far as, yeah, regards to COVID is like, um, okay, if, if there's a, I, I hear now that there's a treatment, you know, a pill, um, that, you know, should be, like, I, I just, so I don't think the brain, I think it's just, it just processes.
Well, okay, so, what I'm saying is like, here, here's the thing, it's like, if your, your brain is not, is, is able to process light because there's a sensor in between the brain and the light, which is your eyeball, right?
So the eyeball is the sensor that allows your brain to process light, and then your brain is able to process your sense of smell because there's a sensor in between what you're smelling and what your brain is doing, and that's the olfactory bulb, right?
Right.
And then, so the question is like, if your brain is able to detect what your, what your, your blood pressure is, what is the sensor in between your brain and your blood pressure?
That is, I see, I don't, and what I'm saying is, I don't think it's the brain that's generating that response, is it?
I think it's the blood vessels themselves that are reacting to the local, um, to the local change with the heart.
And then, it's like a, it works its way up in the system through the blood, I, I don't know, I don't, I don't know, I think the brain registers it.
Well, how do the blood, how do the, it's like, the question is, how do the blood vessels talk to the brain?
Yeah, right? I know, it's, they just deposit their little two bits of data, right?
But where?
The neurons just, they like drop off little data packets, and then it gets lost in all of these packaging stations in the brain.
But what I'm saying is like, but what is, but how is the blood sending a data packet to, to the, to a neuron?
Like, what is the physical trans, what is the physical connection between the blood?
Isn't that just the pressure? Isn't that just the pressure that the blood vessels are exerting on the brain, and then the brain responds?
Um, you know, various senses are interrupted, and altered, and disturbed, and then there's feedback.
So, you're saying that, you're saying that the blood vessels, the blood vessels are pushing on the neurons.
Is that, is that correct? Is that right?
No, no, no, no. I'm saying that the pressure from the nerves, okay, well, okay, so.
I mean, it sounds like you're talking about mechanical vibrations, like maybe the blood vessels, like the pressure increases,
and that sends like a mechanical vibration somehow to the nerves. Is that, does that make sense?
Well, I mean, I guess, what I was thinking was more like, okay, so.
The blood vessel expands and pushes on the optical, let's say, and the vision becomes disturbed, and then the brain reads the visual feedback, right?
Or, okay, wait, let me, let me think about this with a different thing now.
Vision. Let's think about a different kind of interaction.
See, eyes freak me out, too, because I don't, you know, like, just part of the brain, right?
Directly wired in, it's not even, like, it hurts there.
I'm, I'm, so, I'm only quiet because I'm just, like, looking it up as we speak.
I'm, like, looking at different, uh, pages about how headaches work to try to figure out what is the neural path of signaling from that, for headaches.
So, I mean, it's, it's kind of, it's kind of like.
Yeah, it's not. More often.
No, go ahead.
So, I mean, I guess one argument could be that somehow the, the migraine and, uh, the pressure, the pressure is sending some sort of signal, um, but the question is what type of signal that the brain can detect?
It's very, yeah, yeah. See, now about this, a lot of times, very often, right, without pain, there's not always pain, and it's very similar to going into, like, a hypertensive crisis, right?
So, you look at something that, you know, like a window or a door frame, something that you know is a right angle, and it doesn't look like a visual aspect is turned off.
Um, sometimes the, um, there's kind of a prismatic effect, or the school of vision, that to be the field of vision.
Um, like there is with a migraine.
No, I don't, I don't have.
Like there is with a migraine.
So, I've never seen a visual distortion from a headache before, so I haven't, I haven't had this type of headache before.
Yeah, well, it's, a migraine is not really a headache.
Like a lot, like I said, a lot of times I get a migraine, but there's no actual headache.
I just get the visual disturbance, the nausea, you know, I get, like, all of the other symptoms, but maybe I don't get the pain.
Wow.
I've never heard of this before.
Oh, yeah, yeah. A lot of times I get just purely visual migraines, where only my field of vision will be interrupted, and I'll check my blood pressure is fine, the dog's not reacting.
It's just I'll feel a little nauseous and have a visual disturbance.
Did you say the dog's not reacting?
I have a, yeah, I have a, um, an alert, an alert note for my, my car.
Oh, the doc, the doc, the doctor's, the doctor's not reacting or the dog's not reacting?
No, the dog doesn't react.
Like the dog, if my blood pressure moves too quickly one direction or the other, like, she can smell it or something.
Now, here's another interesting thing related to the smell.
How the fuck does my dog know when my blood pressure's not to spike from?
From sense of smell.
How does she know, like, yeah, how does she smell that two or three minutes, it feels like, before it's going to happen?
Huh.
How does she know, how do they smell that?
It's so crazy.
Right.
So, that, so, that means that your, your body is emitting something that a dog can smell.
Mm-hmm.
Right, right before, um, so in, in the stage that leads up to your migraine, your body releases this chemical, chemical.
Not with a migraine.
No, not with a migraine.
Just with the, with the cardiac issue, but just with the blood pressure.
Oh, the blood pressure issue, so, okay.
It was explained to me as, like, a hormone or something, you know, like, distressed hormones or something.
I didn't really get too deep into it because I, you know, learned more about things to think about.
Okay, so it's a, it's a, but it's a hormone that's connected to blood pressure rising and, uh, or it's connected to your body panicking or something on a micro scale.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Your, your body is like, red alert!
And the dog, the dog is the only one who can hear the red alert.
Yeah, it's weird.
Or she smells it.
It gets processed through her little dog brain.
Yeah.
And, uh, somehow they trained her to, uh, she, she's changed, she's trained, she trained herself with the signaling.
It's changed a little bit.
If I'm laying down and I shouldn't get up, she's actually growled at me before.
Mm-hmm.
And she's like 10 pounds, so it's hilarious.
But I've actually gone to get up out of bed before and have the dog just kind of raise her head and growl and be able to blow crumbly.
Because you're, because you're having a blood pressure issue and the dog wants you to stay put.
Yeah, she's like, just lay down.
Just lay down.
Just lay down, bitch.
But, yeah.
Wow.
It's funny.
Yeah, wow.
It's amazing.
She's, uh, but, you know, I, you know, animal senses, right?
They have, they seemingly don't have all of these cognitive processes amongst one another and they came in the way of just, uh, being in touch.
All right, I think I have to go.
Please stay with them.
So cool.
Thanks, Micah.
Every time I talk, you put me out of room.
All right.
