=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0064y Oscillator
First recorded: 2021-11-07T06:34:22.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/90cdd178-1b3f-4a78-a424-9fd4271ba837
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Yeah, so the idea is that the prefrontal cortex is actually a sensory input area for the olfactory bulb. It's a primary sensory cortex, after all.
So basically, the primary sensory cortex is three areas, and those areas are the somatosensory cortex, and the visual cortex, and the outer cortex.
And the only thing that's left is when you're done counting those primary sensory input areas is the prefrontal cortex, right?
But that's not considered a primary sensory, part of the primary sensory, that's not considered a sensory input area, right?
Because the nose, like, it's sort of, like, is involved around the intrauterinal cortex and stuff.
Like, there's a circuit diagram.
But actually, in 2020, yeah, there's a paper that came out that actually goes to the prefrontal cortex.
So I'm arguing that the whole brain is seeing the whole brain, but that different parts of the brain are seeing, like, basically,
every pattern that emerges in the brain ricochets across the entire brain, and it does it because
that when any neuron fires, it represents learned memories that are represented in synaptic connections,
but then they're played out on a pattern that the whole array takes and passes on to a subsequent array,
which sees the whole pattern, and then processes it.
So, you know, the argument is that, you know, one array sees another, and that every oscillator is an array that's seeing patterns from other arrays.
Okay, so far so good.
But the differences between the shape and the size and the position of the oscillators is,
and also the frequencies that are running across those oscillators, like,
that has to do with, like, the lens that's applied to the data, as well as the, in addition to, you know, like, the sensory tuning.
So the sensory tuning is, like, means that stuff that goes through the somatosensory cortex will be much more tactile,
and also it's, like, you know, tastes.
And then at some point, there's, like, there's, you know, part of the circuit for taste also connects up with the sense of smell.
Those two connect.
And I think that was closer to the entorinocortex, but just, but I have to double-check, but, but it's interesting to think about the entorinocortex,
the, sorry, the loop between the hippocampus and the entorinocortex and the, uh, as places where the senses are integrating, right?
The loop between the thalamus, the entorinocortex, and hippocampus is, like, the circuit where the different lower senses are integrating.
Like, sensory inputs come in, and they integrate together with the place cells and grid cells of the, of the, um, the, um, the hippocampus, but also the entorinocortex, and the, uh, and, and, so I would expect to see some sort of circuit
that involves the thalamus with the entorinocortex and the hippocampus, like, it may be looped together, so I need to look for that.
And that would be where senses would be integrated, and then high-level thinking would be integrated, theoretically, through the, there's the, the chain, there, there's either chambers between the, um,
what is it called, the, uh, the thalamic nuclei, the, the delta chambers, the high chambers, that are receiving traffic from the thalamus.
So the traffic goes from the thalamus into the, um, neocortex, and then back to the thalamus.
But when it's going into the thalamus, those are the sensory, uh, input sensory areas, okay?
And then as it gets to the top, that's where the level of focus changes to.
So the idea is that basically, um, the lens of focus is based upon which oscillator is firing, where the oscillator is, how big it is, how, what it's connected to.
Um, and you could have multiple oscillators working together as chaotic, as, um, they could be chaotic oscillators,
because it could be, like, um, just, um, aligning once in a while, but being disaligned for the rest of the time.
Like, they could be alternating between, um, cohesion, having, having, like, firing at the same time once in a while,
and then going out a very long time without firing together.
Like, it could be just, like, um, but the, but the idea is that even if they're chaotically,
firing, like, eventually, they're going to fire once at the same time, eventually.
Even if they're not going to continue to fire at the same time.
So it's like, in a way, they're continuing to oscillate, just not necessarily together.
And some of them will oscillate, you know, in a splay state, where they're, like, the alternate.
You know, one fires, then the other.
Like a, like a, like a, like a, like a, like a, like a beat, but across two drums.
Doom.
And then the other side.
Doom.
So the idea is that, is that executive decisions, um, aren't being made in the prefrontal cortex.
They're being made at, uh, in the delta frequency across the, the layer six of the brain.
So the psych decisions, high-level decisions, are going to be made, made across the entire top of the brain,
which is the slow-term part of the brain, which is the slow-emended part of the grand-industry
possibly.
And that, that's part of it, like, that's, that's part of, like, in, like, in, like, in
a momentous work, that's the, uh, that's where the, the grid cell, grid cells, or where the
reference frames, that's where the reference frames interface with, with the, um, with the changing
orientations that, uh, represent the place cells, right, the fast sensory data.
So, it's like, the top stays stable because it's, like, remembering what room you're in,
and the bottom moves fast, because it's just, it's representing your perspective, which makes
sense, because your alpha waves are your perspective.
So that means that the, the prefrontal cortex is not where decisions are made, the distances
are made in the six layers of the brain.
