=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0063y Integrate Cortex Decisions
First recorded: 2021-11-07T07:55:55.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/f301064e-b602-4580-ac78-9572cf705bcd
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So this means that the, um, if, if the, if the delta range in this, in the fifth and sixth layers, delta frequency range represents the, um, where decisions, where high-level decisions are made, instead of the prefrontal cortex, um, then, uh, then, you know, we can say basically, like, yeah, the visual cortex has high-level decisions that, all the cortices have high-level decisions.
The, uh, the smell, the, we'll call the prefrontal cortex the smell cortex. And, um, so all the cortexes are primary sensory input cortexes. And the visual stuff integrates down in the, the interrenal and the lamic. The sensory inputs integrate in, in, in, there's an, there's an oscill, there's an oscillation there that, that represents the, uh, a certain level of focus.
Uh, the sensory input signals that are, uh, the sensory input signals that are, uh, they're in a loop. So there's a loop between the thalamus and the, um, the, um, the enteral cortex and the hippocampus.
And that loop is, um, um, piping in the, it's, it's, it's bringing the, the, the sensory input areas and looping them together.
So that's where perception happens. That's where reality is. But then, above, in the neoportex, uh, there's, um, what, at the top of the columns, those loop back into the thalamus.
So that's where high-level decision and, and, uh, observation is happening. Um, that's where you're observing, and, uh, these patterns, and making decisions about what to do.
So that—it's happening at the top layers. Um, and those are also being fed back into the, um, might have entered, you know, and, uh, uh, Pedro Camp will do.
Thank you.
