=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0069y Clubhouse olfactory cortex
First recorded: 2021-11-06T06:16:33.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/26764060-421c-4945-bb83-7607e3bbc55a
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Uh, that was pretty good. All right. Um, and then I'm, I'm also like, I mean, I guess it's because when you, I guess what they're saying is when you're, when people are chewing food, there's like little tiny particles that are wafting up out of the mouth and into the nose. And, um, so, so people can smell what they're eating, basically. Some, you know, I don't know if you're, I don't usually, I don't like it's, yeah, it's like, I don't usually think of the fact that I'm smelling what I'm eating, what I'm eating.
Yes. But, I, I guess it, it doesn't make sense.
Yes, it does, yeah. And they're full testing.
The main nerve, the type, even the type of, um, type of neurons, right? So, it says that there's several types of neurons in the olfactory bowl, and I can go over them. So, one of them is like the mitral cells, and, uh, the tuft relay neurons, the granule cells, and the, um, para, uh, para, uh,
glomular neurons. And the, the, so the mitral cells and the tuft relay neurons, they form connections with the olfactory receptor neurons in the glomeruline.
And they receive the olfactory information, and then they carry it from the olfactory bulb to the olfactory cortex, which is the main site of processing olfactory, um, information.
Now, let me see, where is the olfactory cortex? Wow. So, I'm just, like, I'm looking at, like, like, um, images on DuckDuckGo, which is a search engine, and I'm searching for olfactory cortex, and it's showing me, um, huh.
So, there's olfactory tract, olfactory bulb, and then there's, um, let's see, and then it goes backwards, then there's the lateral stria, and then towards, and the medial stria is closer to the center of the brain.
Um, so, like, um, so, like, it goes a little bit from the nose back towards the center of the brain quite a bit.
The olfactory nerves transmit impulses to the olfactory cortex, provides conscious awareness of smells.
Right, exactly. That's what, that's, that's right. That's exactly what I, is the point of this, uh, of this group, is where, where exactly does it connect to the rest of the brain.
So, I'm actually looking at images right now to see if I can figure that out.
Let's see, the olfactory bulb, the menstrual cell, the olfactory cortex, okay, now I'm looking at this.
So, there's the prefrontal cortex, and the primary olfactory cortex appears to be, um, the prefrontal cortex.
I mean, it's not, so, I mean, it's not, it appears to be in the prefrontal cortex, like, on the very bottom of it.
Um, and it's, um, so, it's right below the, the subcolosal gyrus, looks like.
Interesting. So, I, so, like, I, like, okay, so, so, we have the, um, olfactory cortex.
Because it looks like it kind of enters into the parietal, into the prefrontal cortex.
I mean, that's right, it is, it does enter the prefrontal cortex.
And, um, that's amazing.
It goes to the cortex right away. It doesn't, it, it has nothing to do with the brain stem.
Has nothing to do with what?
The brain stem.
Um, I think, I'm still trying to figure that out, but I think it goes directly to the cortex, um, to the prefrontal cortex.
Uh, for me, for me, this is strange.
As, as I know, that all the cranial nerves arises from the, uh, ganglions in the brain stem.
Maybe different levels, but not to the cerebral cortex right away.
Well, so, so, when, when it comes to the ganglions in your eye and the ganglions in your ear, and, um, uh, those go to the thalamus and the brain stem first, and then they go to the cortex.
And that's true also for touch and taste.
But olfactory is different. Olfactory is the unique one.
So, if you, if you think of yourself as having five senses, there's more than five senses, right?
You have interior sense, senses as well.
You know, you have a sense of balance and so forth.
But if you just think of your senses as, um, you know, taste, touch, uh, sight, uh, hearing, and, um, what's the fifth one?
I forget.
Um, so, feeling, uh, tastes, those are two, uh, hearing, and, uh, oh yeah, so four, so four, and then, so the fifth one is olfactory.
Okay, that was silly, but, um, the four of the five, right, the ones that are, um, hearing, vision, uh, uh, feeling, and tasting, those ones go to the, go to the, um, to the, uh, thalamus first, and then they go to the neocortex.
But it appears that olfactory goes directly into the cortex.
That's what I...
Do you know why? I, I, I don't know why it goes to the cerebral cortex right away.
It's, it's, it's some, it's, yeah, that's, it's, that is actually kind of what I'm trying to figure out.
Like, I, I'm just actually, I wasn't even sure that it was going directly to the cortex, and, and that's why I'm, so, let me, let me see if I can try to find more information about this.
Sorry, I was talking while, uh, okay, uh, I, I searched it, they say the only exception for the brain stem, uh, all, all the nerves arises from the brain stem, except for optic and olfactory.
Yeah. Yeah, that's exactly what I said. Yeah. Okay. I'm gonna see if I, I'm looking at this document. It's, um, what is it telling me? Olfactory testing, okay.
Okay. Frontal lobe, olfactory bulb, which ends up, olfactory tract, anterior, commissure, temporal lobe, uh, ventral, let's see, septal area.
Yeah, the limbic lobe on the medial aspect of the cerebral hemisphere, the three parts of the limbic lobe, the cingulate gyrus, the parahippocampal gyrus, and the septal cortex.
Hmm. So, the septal area cortex is very close to, uh, the prefrontal lobes, well, also the cingulate gyrus.
Well, since, since the cingulate gyrus is like, it's like, no, it's, it's not that close. But the, um, yeah, so that's, yeah, so the, the, the, the septal area cortex is the closest to the olfactory bulb of those three in figure three.
So, I'm, I'm, I'm seeing, I'm seeing, if you look up the septal area cortex, that's S-E-P-T-A-L, area cortex. I'm looking that up, too.
It's a subcortical region, has strong projections to emotion-generating areas, and has a key role in feelings and social connectedness and bonding.
In rats, oxytocin binding in the septal area has been associated with maternal behaviors that promote kinship bonds.
Oh, that's interesting. Let's see, prefrontal cortex. So, it's interesting. There's, like, there's channels, like, like, if you go from the prefrontal cortex back towards the midbrain, um, it, it suggests that, uh, GABA signals are going back towards the midbrain.
Um, but what's going from the midbrain towards the prefrontal cortex would be dopamine signals. And that's really interesting, right?
Um, the glutamate, um, the glutamate. And then glutamate is traveling from the prefrontal cortex towards the basal ganglia.
And that, so that would, that would be how nicotine and opiates activate dopamine transmission from the basal ganglia.
Yeah, because the basal ganglia is going to cause the brainstem to, to transmit, um, more dopamine to, uh, the prefrontal cortex.
So, let me ask you this question. Uh, what will be the normal response to, I mean, what are the chemical neurotransmitters, uh, in response to a good smell and if it differs than the ones who for bad smell?
Um, that's an interesting idea. So, you're, so you're saying that, okay, so your idea is that different combinations of neurotransmitters would, would, would represent, uh, the smell?
Of course, there must be, like, a different response to different smells. Otherwise, how, how to differentiate between a good smell and bad smell?
Well, even between smells, like, every, every, every, every single smell from the other.
I mean, that's, that's, that's interesting, but it's, it's, it's, like, um, it seems like the, like, I think of, like, the, um, okay, so if you think about how, like, you know, the, the, the, are you, did, did you subscribe to, like, Hebe and Learning, like, when cells, uh, that, the, the, you know the phrase, when cells fire together, they wire together?
You mean that some neurons, uh, they fire together in response to one stimulus, and the other neurons got stimulated for different stimulus, right?
Um, yeah, yeah. Right. Well, no, I mean, it's about the timing. It's about the timing. So the idea is that if they fire within, if, if you have a whole bunch of neurons, and two of them fire at the same time, then they, then they form connections between each other.
Right. Right. And so the, the phrase neurons that fire together wire together, it's, like, if they fire at the same time, then they form a connection.
Um, and that is the, the, sort of, like, the building block of, of memory. And so what, what I, sort of, like, have been thinking, and it could be incorrect, is that it doesn't matter, it doesn't really matter what type of neurotransmitter, uh, is sent between the two neurons.
All that matters is, is, um, um, um, um, the fact that a signal was sent. And if two signals arrive at the same time, then, uh, that's what matters.
Right. So if, if, if, if, if all that matters is that two signals arrived at the same time, then I, I'm not sure that it matters what type of neurotransmitter is there.
So what, what I'm suggesting is that if we took, um, I mean, what I was thinking was that if we took out the dopamine with, uh, with a syringe and replaced it with acetylcholine or GABA or glutamate or, um, uh, you know, something else, uh, we, you know, then, then, um, the,
the, the signal transmissions would, would still happen and the brain would still function and this, and the same patterns, uh, could be learned regardless of what neurotransmitter gets transmitted.
But what you're saying does, I guess, um, uh, I guess it should make a difference. If, yeah, I guess you're right. You, I mean, your, your, your basic argument, I think, is correct.
That, um, that a different neurotransmitter is going to have different properties that are going to affect the perception of smells to some degree in combination with the timing. So, um, yeah.
Actually, it's very interesting, like, we have, like, maybe, like, thousands or even several thousands of different smells, and you can differentiate between every one of them. So, we don't have, like, thousands of neurotransmitters, but the physiology, how it works, is, I think, it's a very big puzzle, puzzle there.
Yeah, well, um, so, I mean, so, basically, what I'm thinking is that, uh, that if you have, that somehow, if the type of neurotransmitter matters, then, um, uh, it might be because, it's, it's really, yeah, it's really, it might be because it somehow affects the, um, the timing.
Of signals? Does that make sense?
Maybe the amount of, some, some smells. I'm, I'm just trying to think, I don't know, I don't have information about that, but just trying to think, like, if we have a combination of several neurotransmitters, and you, like, you make, like, a mix with certain smells, then you make a different mix with the other one, another mix with the third one.
I think this is how it works, not just the transmitter. You mix the transmitter together, you get, like, a brand new substance in the, in the brain. So, this is how it can feel. Uh, it can perceive different smells.
Hmm. Hmm. Uh, see, I haven't heard of this, uh.
No, it's not something I know, but I'm just trying to think about it.
Okay, so I asked someone a question recently about whether, like, sodium and, like, why is it that sodium doesn't, doesn't mix with, um, calcium?
Like, like, so, the sodium ions sit next to the calcium ions, and they sit next, and they, and they sit next to, um, uh, where the neurotransmitters, like, acetylcholine and dopamine will go, but they don't mix together, because they have different saliency?
No, because both of them have, has different, have the same charge. Both of them are positive ions. So, they cannot, uh,
Um, what I mean is, like, they have, so, different, different saliencies, like, they have different, um, like, you know, like, if you look at two oceans, that have different, like, one ocean has, like, that are not mixing, like, there's pictures of oceans that are not mixing together, like, there's, there's two different colors, and you can tell that the water is separated into two different colors into two different oceans, and they're not mixing because they're, like, one ocean has too much salt, and, and, and the other ocean might be, like, very little salt.
Uh, in case of calcium and potassium, both, both of them are positive ions, so they are charged positively, they will repel, they cannot get close to each other, they should repel, because of the static, you know, uh, positive repels, positive, negative, repels, negative.
But, but, the thing is, like, um, but sodium ions stick together, and those are all positive, right?
Actually, I don't know. Yeah, you're right.
So, so, but for some reason, like, the, but in the, like, in the brain, what people have told me is that the calcium and the sodium and the potassium, they all, um, they all share the same space, but they, but, and they, scientists don't see them mixing together.
And, and the, the explanation that they said was because it's different, like, they have different, different, um, like, different saliency.
Uh, I don't remember, like, the, the mechanism itself, but what I remember is that when there is action potential, they, they travel, uh, like, in different, in, in, in different directions, throws a membrane.
All right.
Let me look this up. Why, I'm going to look up on, on, uh, the search engine.
Why is it that neurotransmitters, um, don't mix?
I'm just going to see with it.
Let me see. Uh, mixing, potassium, uh, mixing, uh, acetyl, choline, and sodium.
Yeah. Well, I don't know if we want to, yeah, and sodium. I just want to see, like, acetylcholine and dopamine.
Let me see dopamine.
So, I, do you know if neurons fire different types of, um, neurotransmitters? It seems like they would, right?
Uh, but I wonder if it's, like, if, if a synapse can, like, change what kind of, can have multiple kinds of, uh, neurotransmitter transmissions.
Because that would, that would be, like, that would be, because, because here, because what I'm saying is, like, um, if you have, so, if you have one synapse that is, that only does dopamine, um, then, uh, then it, there's not really any mixing that could happen in a way.
Um, and if you have one synapse that only does, uh, acetylcholine, then it's not really mixing that happens.
It's, like, in, it's usually, I think it's usually what happens is you have, like, what's called, like, dopamine, dopamine neurons.
And you have GABA neurons, you have acetylcholine neurons.
And they primarily just use dopamine.
And, and there's, and so, for each synapse, you have one synapse, like, dedicated to just dopamine.
And, and that would mean there is nothing else there that could be mixing with that dopamine to, to achieve the smell.
That's what I'm saying.
I, I, that's what I think.
But do you, and if you know, maybe I'm incorrect.
Do you have another?
Um, maybe the difference is not the neurotransmitter, but there are different receptors.
Yeah.
Maybe there, there are different types of, of receptors.
So maybe the neurotransmitter is one or two or three, but the responsible for, uh, several, uh, several, uh, smells, how to differentiate between several smells.
It's maybe not the neurotransmitter, but the different type of, uh, receptors.
Okay.
Um, well, so, um, different types of receptors.
So, I mean, like, so what the receptors are doing, right, is, like, we, the receptors are, like, opening, uh, the, the, the metabotropic receptor gets knocked by, by, uh, a, um, by a neurotransmitter, like dopamine.
And, um, and then that opens up another receptor, right?
Like, and the other receptor is an ion receptor.
So the metabotropic receptor opens up, uh, opens up, um, an ion receptor.
Um, and, uh, then you have, then sodium floods.
Sodium either floods into, uh, the cell or, or calcium does.
And, um, but that, that other receptor is, like, either, it's either going to be, like, a, a sodium receptor or a calcium receptor or a, a choline receptor.
And so either you're going to have, uh, potassium and, uh, choline coming out of the cell or you're going to have sodium and calcium going into the cell.
And then the, the, when the, the neurons, the, the transmit, the, um, sorry, the, the ions, like the sodium ions, when they fill up the, um, the cell to a certain amount, they create, uh, the charge which causes the neuron to fire.
And so the only thing that's mixing together, because, because the dopamine and the acetylcholine are outside the cell in the synapse, in a dopamine synapse or an acetylcholine synapse, that those, um, that acetylcholine is never going to mix with dopamine.
But what might, what, what could come together is, I guess you could have the, basically the, um, inside the cell and outside the cell you have combinations of, of, uh, of, of ions, like sodium ions, calcium ions, potassium ions, and, um, but they kind, it's kind of like they're, they kind of stick to their own areas.
Right.
But they, but they, yeah, you can get a bunch of different kinds of, you can get a mix of neurotransmitters inside a cell.
Um, but the, the main thing that matters is that they add up to the cell's threshold and then the, the, the, uh, the action potential event gets, gets fired.
Um.
Uh, comparing to the taste buds in the, in the tank, um,
every part of the tank can only, uh, can only receive, uh, response, like, some parts can, can, can taste salty, other parts can taste sweet, other parts can taste better.
I, um, suggest that maybe the factory nerve receptors work the same way, maybe.
I'm not sure, I'm not sure exactly, because you said something like, the, the tongue can taste different things, right?
And then you're sort of like, well, maybe the nose works the same way, right?
Is that kind of what you said?
Or was, was it, was it, did you have a different one?
Yeah, I, I think, yeah, that's what I said, but it's not according to knowledge, it's just according to thinking, try to think what's happening.
I see, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's, it's, um, okay, so you're just, okay, and then by the way, uh, someone is, uh, someone else came into the room, should we invite, uh, look, last name is Salamis, let's invite this, uh, gentleman to speak with us.
Thanks, uh, you're welcome to come on up and join us, if you'd like.
Uh, it's more of a, more of a, we don't really have a presentation, it's more of just, uh, we're just trying to figure out, uh, how the olfactory, um, bulb is, uh, connected to the olfactory cortex,
and how those signals travel through the prefrontal cortex and the network of the brain, and, um, so if you know, then you can help us figure out how, how it's connected, um, how the, how the, how, like, I'm, I'm interested, it's like, what, how, what is the path, basically, of, of, um, what is the neural pathway, um,
the neural pathways of the olfactory cortex, olfactory pathway and nerve, let's see, sensations perceived by the body are organized into two major groups,
general sensations such as touch, pressure, pain, temperature, and special sensations such as vision, hearing, taste, and smell, the sense of body position and movement,
the olfactory nerve is the first of 12 cranial nerves and one of the few cranial nerves that carries special sensory information only.
In this case, the olfactory nerve is responsible for our sense of smell.
Um, it originates in the, uh, epithelium of the nasal cavity.
It's transported to the brain via the components of the olfactory nerve, cranial nerve 1, and the olfactory pathway.
A decreased sense of smell has been associated with, uh, Parkinson's disease and thus, uh, can be an important clinical marker in this and other states of disease or injury.
Um, so to understand the olfactory nerve and its clinical implications, this article will trace the olfactory nerve from its receptor cells,
from its, this article will trace the olfactory nerve from its receptor cells located in the nasal epithelium to the olfactory cortex and beyond.
This is exactly what we want to know.
Um, it will highlight some of the unique characteristics of certain cells within the olfactory pathway and the connection of the pathway to memory and behavior-related brain regions.
Excellent.
Excellent.
Um, so key facts.
Uh, so the function is the sense of smell, special sense of smell.
The olfactory cells, uh, these are key facts about the olfactory nerve and pathway.
Um, the olfactory receptor cells, they sense odor and they contain cilia, uh, supporting cells, basal stem cells replacing old and damaged olfactory receptor cells.
And, um, um, the CN I formed out of a collection of olfactory receptor cell axons, which passes through the crib reform plate and into the roof of the nasal cavity.
It's the relay station of the olfactory pathway and contains the olfactory glom or ruvi.
It's made up of axons and, and of, uh, the axons of mitral relay neurons.
And they are the medial and lateral divisions of, okay, so that's the, okay, so I am,
messing up a little bit here, so, um, so, okay, so the idea is that we have, we have this list of functions, so the olfactory cells, the olfactory nerve, the olfactory bulb, the olfactory tract, the olfactory stria, olfactory cortex, and olfactory destination, or the output destination, so with, which is basically the olfactory destination.
So that's the orbital frontal cortex.
I, I was reviewing, um, uh, one study about the olfactory nerve and the anatomy and physics.
They say, yes, they say, yes, that there are, uh, different groups of olfactory sensors, and they are distributed along the mucosal brains of the, of the nose, and, um, uh, along the axon of the nerve.
So, there are different groups that, not, not every one of them get stimulated by, uh, some group of, uh, odors.
Like, one, one group is stimulated by certain group of odors, and doesn't work when another odor comes through.
Right, right, yeah, okay, so that, so that does sound, um, it does sound right, uh, that you're gonna have different types of receptors, uh, in the, in the, um, uh, epithelium.
Would you like, would you like to, would you like me to read it?
Yeah, go ahead, go ahead, that'd be great.
Yes, yes, I hear you fine.
Your audio's going good.
I'll just mute myself.
Olfactory reception is mediated by olfactory receptor cells located in the olfactory epithelium.
These cells are bipolar neurons that extend, uh, a dendrite toward the nasal lune, and an axon toward the olfactory bulb in the brain.
The dendrite, uh, possesses a group of epical cilia embedded in the mucus.
Uh, uh, odorant recognition and signal, uh, transducation are initiated at the membranes of these chemosensory cilia and, uh, culminate in, uh, excitation of the olfactory receptor cell.
Differential activation by, uh, uh, odorants of these connect groups of olfactory receptors, uh, cells generates patterns of neuronal activity that, uh, uh, detect odor, quality, and concentration.
The identity's primary odorant, uh, uh, recognition sites at the cellulary membrane remain to be established.
However, a significant body of information has become available with respect to the olfactory transducation mechanisms.
It is now becoming clear that olfactory transducation involves, uh, interplay of several-second messenger systems to control the response of these, uh, equi-, equi-, equi-, equi-, equi-, equi-,
equi-, equi-, equi-, equi-, sensitive, uh, kiosensory neurons.
Oh, that was great, thank you. Um, yeah, I'm on the, I'm on a, I'm on a similar, of a similar page that I'm reading, uh, I mean, that I was reading, I was listening to you, but, uh, but, uh, but yeah, I'm on the same page.
Well, I, I think we guessed it right, like, different group of receptors.
Yeah.
Uh, right, like, some of the stimulation of some groups, not the others, uh, penetration of the neurotransmitter, uh, make different, uh, perception.
Right.
So it says from the olfactory cortex that information about smell is sent to the orbital frontal cortex via the dorsal medial nucleus of the thalamus.
Um, so that's kind of tripping me out, right, because...
To the which nucleus?
Through the dorsal medial nucleus of the thalamus.
So, so remember you said, doesn't, we, we had this question that, um, you know, it says that the, the nose goes directly to the cortex somehow, but, but then it kind of goes from the, um, the prefrontal cortex to the thalamus,
and then back to the, um, the cortex again.
Right, because, here's, here's, here's...
It's like a recurrent, uh, recurrent, uh, recurrent, uh, recurrent, uh, well, no, I mean...
There's not two pathways.
No, no, that's not, that's not, well, it's not, not exactly, um, uh, it's, it seems, it's, and I could be wrong about this, but it seems like it's saying it goes from the, the olfactory cortex is part one, and then it goes to the thalamus is part two, and then it goes to the orbital frontal cortex, which is on top of the olfactory cortex.
Right, so it's, it's not going back to the same area, it's going to a different area when it leaves the thalamus.
So, um, this is all surprising, because this is stuff I didn't know at all, but it seems like, yeah, so it's like, it's, it's almost like zigzagging, like, imagine a Z, right, it's, so it goes from, so let's put, like, okay, so imagine the front of your brain, where you're close, maybe close to your, um, right on top of your nose, in between your eyebrows, okay?
Let's say that in between your eyebrows, on top of your nose, that's where, that's somewhere around there, inside your skull, in your brain, that's where the, um, the orbital, I'm sorry, that's where the olfactory cortex is, and it's not, it, it may, like, it seems like it's not connected directly to the orbital frontal cortex, which is right on top of it.
It's so, it's like you have a, a piece of the neocortex, which is separated from the neocortex that's on top of it, instead of one communicating directly to the other, it goes to the old brain first, and then it comes back.
So it's, it's kind of, it kind of seems like this olfactory cortex is, um, not directly connected to the orbital frontal cortex, and that's sort of, like, what I, I'm actually trying to confirm right now, is, is how those are really connected, because it seems like they should be connected.
So I'm, I'm, that's a mystery, but, let me, let me look this up, is, I'm gonna say, is the olfactory cortex connected to the orbital frontal cortex?
Frontal lobe circuits.
There's a video, oh, that's cool, uh, the functions of the orbital frontal cortex.
I'm looking at a YouTube video, but, I'm like, it's taking a long time to load, so let me see if I can fast forward it.
That's the anatomy, it's just, um, it's the ventral, the orbital frontal cortex, uh, is the frontal part of the brain that connects to the magnocellular, medial, and nucleus of the thalamus.
It connects to the magnocellular, medial, medial, and nucleus of the thalamus.
Ventral surface.
Oh, it, it, it, it goes from the cerebral cortex to the thalamus, and then back to the cerebral cortex again, right?
Yeah, that's what I'm saying, but to a different, but to a different area.
Okay.
I think, uh, I make an explanation for you.
Okay.
If you try to, uh, like, to, to figure out the pathway of pain, uh, or, uh, yeah, pain, let's say.
Uh, it ends up on the thalamus.
Okay.
To feel pain.
Yeah.
To localize pain, there are other, uh, like, uh, another order of neurons go to the cerebral cortex.
The function of these neurons, just to localize pain where, to feel where is the pain is.
So, there are two different functions.
Feeling pain is the thalamus.
But, look, to know where is the location of this pain is, uh, the cerebral cortex.
Maybe the olfactory nerve goes this way.
To feel the smell, maybe this is the function of the thalamus, but to differentiate between smells
and give you, like, uh, like, uh, uh, does the smell mean, and if, if you like it or no.
So, the, I mean the emotional and educational part.
You feel the smell, but you know, you need to explain what, what the smell, uh, is it good or bad?
Does it belong to a good situation or a bad situation?
This needs different center in the brain, uh, not in the brain, not, not, not, not in the hypothalamus,
in the cerebral cortex, again, to, like, explain what does it mean.
Right.
Yeah, no, I agree.
That's, um, that's, that's basically, I forgot I was on mute.
I was talking on mute.
Sorry about that.
I, I agree.
That's basically right, um, that you need your brain to be able to connect the feeling of pain
and the, in, in, in the sense of smell together.
So, there has to be a connection between the two.
Yeah, because, like, it's, like, two different functions.
To, to feel or to perceive the thing, this is one.
To know its location, this is two.
I mean, this is in the, in the case of pain, but in case of, uh, smelling, to feel, to, to,
to, to, to sense of the, the smell, this is a function, but to, the, the, the other knowledge
regarding to the smell, is it good, is it bad, do you like it, no, it's a good situation,
it's a bad situation, maybe dangerous situation, it needs the cerebral cortex, again, for higher
processes, like that.
Yeah, you know what's weird, is that it looks like the, the, um, orbital frontal cortex
includes the, um, the olfactory bulb, so I'm confused about that, maybe I need, I need
to look this up, um, orbital frontal cortex, because I'm not sure if it, if it includes
the olfactory bulb, uh, or I mean, I'm sorry, the olfactory cortex, let's see, so the olfactory
cortex is a prefrontal cortex region in the frontal lobes, which is involved in the cognitive
processing of decision making.
In non-human primates, in non-human primates, it consists of the association cortices area,
11, 12, and 13, in humans, it consists of Broderman area, 10, 11, and 47, so it's considered
to be anatomically synonymous with the ventral, pre-, ventral medial prefrontal cortex, so the
region is distinguished due to the distinct neural connections, uh, and, uh, the distinct
functions it performs.
It is defined as the part of the prefrontal cortex that receives the projections from the
medial dorsal nucleus of the thalamus, and, maybe that's what I need to look up, some
medial dorsal nucleus of the thalamus. And it's sought to represent the emotion, taste, olfaction,
and reward in decision making. It gets its name from its position immediately above, uh,
the orbits in which the eyes are located. It's weird, it kind of gets, it's, it's, so it's
located, it's located close to the eyes, and so it got its name from the eye, so that's the
orbital frontal cortex, but it has nothing to do with the eyes. It's just close to the
eyes.
It's, it's function, it's a cognitive function.
Well, yeah, I made it related to decision making, right? I'll mute myself for a second.
Oh, okay, but you don't have, like, any information about, like, specific for, uh, for olfactory nerve,
memories of different smells. Of this smell, what does it mean? If it gives you a warning,
if you, whenever you, you, you have this smell, so it's dangerous situation, or, say what,
situation, or whatever?
Uh, would you, would you say it again?
Never go there, sensory parts, pure sensory, like, the smell itself, and the, there is other
processes related to this smell, maybe memories, maybe, uh, analysis of the situation, if
it is good or bad, uh, or warning, or anything else. So you need cognition to understand what
you're smelling. Smelling is one thing, the decision, when you smell the thing, uh, the, when
you have this smell, and how you understand it, how you perceive it, and act upon, it's a different
process.
Yeah, I'm still here. I, I understand what you said, that, that we, we have different
processes of, you know, attention, planning, organization, abstract thinking, multitasking,
and active memory, that are somehow involving smell, it seems like, right? That's what it kind
of seems like, that there's, there, the area that is, uh, managing the sensation patterns
of smell is also somehow involved in, in, um, in decision-making, and, uh, abstract thinking,
and attention, and, right? That's, that, that's, that's a little bit weird, but I guess...
Yes, but the sense of smell itself, like, as a, like, as a pure, a pure, a pure function,
maybe it's in the thalamus, it's in the thalamus, not on the, uh, on the, um, uh, prefrontal,
prefrontal cortex.
You're thinking it's just processed in the thalamus, but it's not processed in the prefrontal
cortex?
No, I, I mean, the sense, the sense of smell.
Yeah.
It's perceived by the thalamus.
You're saying it's perceived by the thalamus.
But here, in the back, uh, the other ideas related to cognitive part of smelling is made
on the cerebral cortex.
Um, okay, well, I mean, so, scientists think that the, uh, some, some scientists, not all
of them, have expressed the idea that, um, the thalamus is just like a, a relay that just
takes signals that, it's so, it's so thin, it just takes signals from, uh, from a sense
organ and connects them to, uh, the neocortex.
And they think of it as like a, like a router, like a Cisco router.
It just routes the information.
Um, do you agree with that, or do you, what do you think?
Is that?
Yeah, what I think is, uh, the thalamus is like, uh, the, the thalamus and brainstem
is like primitive function, but the higher functions are located in the, the cerebral cortex.
Right.
But you're, you're kind of thinking that the thalamus is also perceiving the smell?
It is the one who perceives the smell, but the cerebral cortex is the one who explains
the smell, and gives the memory, and gives judgment, and then gives the action.
Hmm, okay, yeah, that's, that's a pretty cool, I like that, that's a good, uh, uh, idea
of how it might work.
Um, so let's say that, um, okay, so let's just, let's just, let me describe that again
in my own words.
Can I ask you a question first?
Yeah, go ahead.
Why are you interested in the olfactory nerve, especially?
Um, I'm, well, I'm actually, I'm actually going through all the different sense, sensory
pathways, so I'm just trying to, like, understand the general map of each of the sensory pathways,
and today I'm just sort of, like, looking at the olfactory.
So I'm, I'm kind of going through it all, I'm kind of going through it all.
This is the first sense you start with, or you started another room?
I've done, for another thing.
Um, I've gotten, I've already gone through, uh, the visual, and the audio,
the auditory pathways, and, um, the, the touch, the touch, uh, pathway to the somatosensory
cortex.
Um, I haven't done the tongue yet, so there's only, there's, there's one more, there's, I
guess there's one more room to, to be, to go on in the future, which would be how the tongue,
uh, connects to the, um, let's see, the tongue, let me, let me type this up, so tongue connects
to the neocortex, because, because I guess, I want to see, I, actually, I, I, I heard that
the, I mean, I have this idea that the tongue connects to the seratosensory cortex, but I'm
actually not sure, so I'm going to look it up.
You're studying the medical field?
I'm writing a book, I'm writing a, a book on neurophysics.
Oh, okay, great.
Yeah.
So, I, I study the, yeah, I do, I do, in fact, study the medical field, but I'm, uh, I'm at
the, I'm at the point where I'm writing a book about the brain, and I'm sort of, like,
right now, I'm, the reason I'm, like, hosting, um, like, really fine detailed anatomy discussions,
I mean, this is really neuropathway, this is really, this, I could actually rename the
room to neuropathway exploration, and that would be the same sort of idea as the, as the
olfactory and prefrontal and network connections, um, and, because that is basically what I've been
looking for, is, like, the neural pathway, uh, neural pathways of sensory, uh, information.
Because, like, because, like you said, like, I mean, I, like, you know, at some point, if
you're going to have the sense of pain, it's going to be connected to the sense of, of touch,
or the sense of smell, or the, or sight, or hearing, if you want to hear where's the pain
coming from, then there has to be a connection between these different, different reasons,
right? So that, yeah, so I, I'm on, I'm on that page, and I agreed with you when you said
that. I was like, yeah, that's, that's what I'm thinking, too. I think that's the, I think
that's what everybody thinks, uh, in the field of neuroscience, basically. I think that you're
on the same page as the rest of, um, the, uh, field of neuroscience, I think, uh, from
what I know. But, um, but yeah, so, I kind of want to see, also, what is the tongue? Because
you brought up the tongue as well, so I think you're interested, too. So, the tongue and, let's
see, maybe I'm going to miss this, I'm going to type, uh, tongue somatosensory. Let's see
if that helps. Somatosensory processing of the tongue. Yeah, so that is correct. The tongue
actually does connect to the somatosensory cortex. Connected with which nerve? Tregeminate?
I'm looking that up. Uh, it's, uh, it's an epithelial sac filled with muscles and connective
tissue. These muscles can be controlled willfully and are generally referred to as skeletal muscles
or voluntary striated muscles, which are divided into intrinsic and extrinsic muscles, and its
various functions. Uh, but, like, it's really interesting. It's, like, we have, we have basically,
like, um, you know, the, uh, the, uh, the word, um, epithelial came up. It's an epithelial
sac. Okay, no, that's not the right word. Uh, let's see. Can we close this? Just, this is
actually the wrong paper. Tongue weakness and somatosensory disturbance following oral
endotracheal extubation, extubation? No. Oral somatosensory awareness. Maybe this could be it.
So, or, the somatosensory modulation depended on the specific direction of the tongue protrusion.
Following these findings, uh, they performed several studies assessing the functional organization
of the monkey somatosensory cortex, reported from several extended rostocodule. Tongue plays
an important role in the functions of taste. Um, these functions are not only due to the tongue
sensory functions, but also motor functions. Strength. Oh, right. So, like, so, like, so, like,
as you, as you, like, your muscles, the muscle, the tongue is a muscle that's, like, imagine
it's, like, a tiny arm in your mouth, right? And it, when it pushes food around, that, that,
you, that gives you the awareness of, like, the pressure, uh, or the density of the food
that you're eating, right? That's part of, that's part of the sensation. It's not just
the taste buds. It's also, like, it's like when you, when you, when you grab something
with, with your hand and you try to lift it and you feel, like, the torque of your, you
feel, like, how good the torque of your hand is compared to the weight of the object, and
you, and you have that sort of sensation, and so the tongue is doing that, too.
I, I was searching the, the test pathway.
Yeah?
It is, it's not only one nerve, the three nerves.
Oh.
The, the anterior third, the frontal third of the tongue is the facial nerve.
Okay.
Which is mainly motor, but the only, uh, sensory part is the anterior third of the tongue, then
comes, uh, the glossopharyngeal nerve, and then, for the other parts of the buccal cavity,
the, uh, the vagus nerve, the nerve number 10.
Did you know that, um, that octopuses see from their skin? Like, they can, like, their, their
skin is photosensitive? So it's like, imagine that, um, that, that your skin basically can
see light, that your entire skin was basically an eyeball.
It's not in the same, the, the same sense, but, yeah, it's photosensitive means, like, different
types of, uh, uh, uh, light waves, or, no, not light waves, different type of waves can
affect the skin. It can produce some, uh, uh, response, chemical response for the skin.
Yeah, but that's just, it's just, like, um, how, I mean, some waves can penetrate the skin,
and other can make, some chemical response for the skin, like the ultraviolet.
Yeah, I'm going to try this up. So octopus can see with their skin, because the skin can,
like, change color. It can detect light and respond to it, and so it, it can see, like,
whatever is, whatever texture is underneath it, and then it can change to match what that
texture is. So the skin is, um, it's like, it's like this alien technology, because, like,
imagine that if you stand, like, no matter what you stand next to, you just, you just, like,
merge into the background. You just, like, you, you are, like, it'd be like your skin is
not just an eyeball, but it's an eyeball that can represent whatever's behind you. So you look like
the background. Isn't that amazing? Yeah, that's what it is. Yeah, and that's part, and, like, yeah,
and then, so octopuses can hide from everything else. Like, they can look, like, whatever ground
is around, they can just match the color of it. And so, like, you have, like, creatures, like,
well, they can even hide from other octopuses. Like, that's how, like, they can scare the crap
out of each other. Because, like, imagine, like, you're hanging out with your family, and you could
just, like, perfectly blend into any scene. And then you could surprise people.
I tried.
Yeah, all you need is to draft, is to genetically draft some octopus skin to your skin, and then
you, maybe you can do it. I mean, well, I mean, I don't know. There's probably, there's more
to it, but I guess. I wonder, I wonder if that could work, actually. The reason I, the reason
I wonder, I wonder if it really matters if the octopus has, has to be very thin. Because
it doesn't have, like, it's not a solid, it's not, like, I mean, I've almost heard, I've
heard octopuses describe it as basically, like, a liquid, a liquid creature. It doesn't
have, like, a, like a hard skeleton like we do. So, so it can kind of morph into almost
any shape. Not any shape, but almost. You know, it's like, like a bag that can take, that
can take on, like, an enormous amount of flexible shapes.
I, I guess, I guess the octopus has a lean body, like.
Yeah, that's what I'm saying is, the fact that it's lean, the fact that it's lean.
The jellyfish, it is much different. It has, like, I guess, the muscles, I think, which
is very, I mean, the body of the, of the octopus is very lean. It's, it has no fat. It has strong
muscles. It has, like, tough texture. It's not like a jellyfish.
Right. And then, welcome, uh, BA. So, in case you're interested in the topic, we were
just, like, pondering some of the neural pathways of how the olfactory, uh, cortex is connected
to the rest of the brain, like, how the network connections are. And, um, it does look like
it goes, the olfactory, uh, cortex goes to the thalamus and then it goes to the, uh, pre,
then it goes to the, um, orbital frontal cortex. But I'm sort of, like, trying to figure
out, um, you know, why, why can't it go from the, um, the, why can't signals travel from
the olfactory cortex directly to, um, to the orbital frontal cortex? Because they're right
next to each other. But it stops from processing along the way where?
So the olfactory cortex and the, and the, uh, is, is right next to, uh, the orbital frontal
cortex? And, and, but I'm wondering why signals don't travel directly from me.
So how, how do they travel is what I'm wondering. Oh, they, oh, by the way, I did come in because
of the room title and it kind of carried over from the conversation. Yeah. Yeah. But when
I came in and you were talking about the, um, color changing, texture changing, so I backchanneled
you a link, you got me thinking. Aww. Yeah, I forgot we could send links via the backchannel.
Yeah, I forgot about that. Thank you. Yeah, you sent me a link. Uh, do you want to send this
to, uh, the other, uh, person in the room, too? Oh, sure. Um, so that, so that link is
chameleon inspired robot skin changes colors instantly. So that's, yeah, so the octopus is
basically a chameleon. Uh, yeah, squid and octopi are freaking crazy. They distributed, um, brains,
but just like everything about this. Yeah. Yeah. So how, what, um, so what is the route? I'm
sorry to ask you to read up. The route, the route. Yeah. So the route from, so what is the path?
The route from the, um, so, so you have the nasal cavity, right? Which, um, and then you have, um,
sensors that go from, you have, you have, uh, cells that go from the nasal cavity to the olfactory bulb,
which is, um, right above the, um, nasal cavity. So the, but also that it's, it's really, it's like,
I might be, for some reason I'm, like, searching the web and I'm not finding good answers.
So let me try Google, because I was searching DuckDuckGo. So the olfactory cortex versus the, um,
orbital frontal. Here we go. It's like, here we go. Oh, I did find a paper. Okay. So the orbital
frontal cortex and the olfactory bulb volume predict distinct aspects of olfactory performance
in, uh, healthy subjects. So while recent, recent studies have shown, so I, so here, here's my
point of confusion is I guess that the olfactory cortex is distinct from the, um, from the, uh,
uh, orbital frontal cortex, but in some pictures, in some pictures, they're, like, depicted as being
in the same area. Do you know what I mean? So if they're, if they're, I scare, can I chase
off the other person that you listen to? Uh, I don't know. They, I, I, I don't think you did
anything that they, that would have affected, that would have caused them to leave, uh,
unless, unless they had a really, like, um, uh, weird, uh, idea in their head, which is
not likely. They seem like a very ordinary person to me. So I, I, I doubt you did anything
that would have caused them to leave. I'm just checking in. You know, I can be awkward
and sometimes I, you know, don't realize what I'm doing, so. Yeah, I don't think so.
But I, but of course we don't know, cause, cause they're not here to say anything, but
I, I, I doubt it. I think probably not. Let's see, uh, characterizing the functional
pathways of the olfactory system. By the way, if you think of someone that would be fun
to invite, uh, by the way, like, anyone is, like, a neuroscientist. I was, like, I'm connected
to, like, a thousand people on, um, Clubhouse, but I forget, like, okay, who's the doctor,
right? Yeah, I'm, I'm just looking to see who's online, right? Really see any. I mean,
maybe any, any doctor or neurosurgeon. Yeah, it doesn't look like anyone that I know who's
in the, you know, specific to these fields and stuff. Online right now. You know, what
about Lisa Watts? She, you never know what she has, um, tucked in her hat. She knows a lot
of, she just has a lot of random. Okay. Maybe we could ping, um, oh, I can't ping. Maybe
Lisa Watts. Uh, let me see if I have Lisa on here. Because she is one of these humans
that just has a schmattering of crazy knowledge, um, across broad ranges, but she also knows
a lot of people. There she is. Yeah. So maybe if Lisa doesn't know, maybe Lisa knows people
that go. Yeah, so, so Lisa, BA suggested that we summon, that we request your, we request
your company. Cause, uh, we're trying to figure out basically the neural pathways of the sense
of smell and how, and how that, and how that connects to the brain. And one of the questions
is, one of the questions is, is how are the, um, is about the anatomy of the olfactory cortex
and the, um, orbital frontal cortex. Because I, because I guess they're saying that the sense
of smell goes to your, to the, uh, olfactory cortex first, and then it goes to the thalamus,
and then it goes to the orbital frontal cortex. But when you look at different, uh, different, uh,
images of the orbital, uh, frontal cortex and the olfactory cortex, they look like, uh, they're
almost in the same area. And so I'm trying to, like, see, like, what's, what are the, what are the
distinct areas between the two? I mean, if the signals have to go from one area to another
area, then, um, they should be distinct areas. So why is it they look like they're in the
same area? And, I don't know, let me just pop my, mute myself for a second. Micah, I'm
just gonna send you a link. I'm skimming through, um, paper right now that, um, I mean, it sounds
like it's very specific. Sounds good. This is slightly comic book. Um, I, I, you may not
remember this, but there was, uh, a little tad, like, a while back, and I said something
along the lines of, yeah, well, the spell's not entirely understood. And I think I didn't
maybe phrase it well. Um, yeah, I have a lot of ideas about it. I did talk to a person
that was specializing in taste, and I have kind of some theories loosely around, uh, yeah,
changes in the morphology of the Jacobson's organ and how that might relate to a whole bunch
of things. Um, but yeah, the best I could suggest probably is if you wanted to map it
out, I would use the anosmia from the COVID cases as, like, a control to see what, like,
where the specific damage occurs, basically. Is there, it's through the ACE2 and the epithelial
thing, but, um, the permanent loss of smell should be affecting the part of the brain that
you're looking for, I think. I mean, it could be, from what I've heard described, it sounds
to me like there is some small degree, because I do have this person, it will occasionally
drop in and out. Um, but it sounds to me, I mean, I would, I would, I've been guessing this
whole time. There's some small amount of fiber damage. In some cases, it's not, it's too expensive
for the body to repair. And, um, in some cases, it's going to, you know, like, they will repair
with the proper supplies, right? But, but it takes a long time. I'm not convinced that
it's, you know, uh, I'm not convinced that it's a signal issue or a brain issue, I think
it needs. Um, Lisa, what were you saying about, in terms of what I should look up? Again, I
want to write that down. You said, search for, um, is this, I'll pause with it.
The selion nitric oxide system, I think is how the damage occurs. And I, I would, yeah,
I can't think of a better way to, um, to try to parse it out than to look at the anosmia.
It's such an odd signal. And it's happened in mass and there are available brain scans for,
you know, the, uh, great British brain or whatever it was. Um, so there's before and
after COVID scans of people. And you could probably cross-reference that with anosmia and that would
give you like a light up kind of picture of where in the brain in particular, the damage
occurs. Um, yeah, that's probably the most helpful thing I could think of.
Okay, wait a minute. Okay, well, I know this one.
COVID is causing brain damage. No, no, I don't know. I'm sorry. I don't think it's a lot of
news. Like, I don't keep, I don't, I'm not committed to any information that I don't
deliberately speak out. And so this is new to me. COVID causes brain damage.
Yeah. In like a majority. And in those with mild illness, the great brain study was like,
it's pretty, um, yeah, you should look it up. I'm not at, you know, a neuroscientist and,
um, but it seemed fairly convincing.
No, no, it's just completely new. Like I said, like, here's what I'm, I'm hearing, you know,
I'm hearing individual reports, you know, a lot of people that I know will, you know,
describe their symptoms, like, oh, I'm going through this. And, you know, just from listening
to symptoms, I'm like, oh, okay, it sounds to me like there's some kind of small fiber
nerve damage going on, and it repairs. But over time, I had no idea, Lisa, I had no idea that
COVID was causing brain damage.
Well, we, well, I, I mean, I was, I was lucky enough to be in, in some of the groups of folks
that, uh, where we did, we did know because of, um, uh, really early research, uh, that was
shared with a lot of people. So we, we were tracking that, but there was, there was a
lot, it was a mystery for a long time about exactly how, how that worked. And, um, yeah,
and I'm suggesting the endothelial nitric oxide thing on the basis of Dex. Um, yeah, I took
that break from him. Uh, Dex suggested it, and then all of the treatments I was aware
of that worked actually acted on that nitric oxide system. And his prediction was that if
you gave someone a nasal, a nitric oxide nasal spray, um, early enough in the treatment,
he thought you could, um, reverse and, or, you know, uh, yeah, sure. I don't know if you
know Dex, but he's, I'm not sure what exactly he does, but he's pretty knowledgeable about
the brain. I think he's.
Yeah, let's invite Dex. Let me, let me search for him. D-E-X. Uh, okay, let me send him,
I just sent him an invitation. Yeah, and he said he, that's the nitric, the endothelial
nitric oxide cascade is what he was blaming it on. Um, but you should be able to follow
the, right, like the ACE2 receptor and everything to the direct part of the brain and give the
scan. Right, well, I mean, obviously the brain has a lot of blood vessels and part of the
brain is exposed underneath the blood-brain barrier and, um, you know, blood, blood vessels
have the endothelial lining, right? So, um, at least that, I mean, before I, before you
pointed this side, I mean, that was at least part of the, um, way that we could think about
the, um, the virus affecting the brain is, is via the blood vessels, um, and, and especially
the part of the brain that's underneath the blood, the blood-brain barrier, um, or not protect,
the part of the brain that's not protected by the blood-brain barrier. I mean, but yeah,
the endothelial lining of blood vessels. But I mean, I guess this is, is this, this is
kind of like, yeah, vascular endothelial. This is basically nitric oxide. It's synthesized
in the vascular endothelial, uh, in the substrate L-argonine in a reaction catalyzed by the endothelial
nitric oxide synthase. Um, this mediator influences the function of circulating cells and underlying
smooth muscle to contribute to the tonic and throat protective and thrombo-resistant and
vasodilator influence of the endothelium. Um, uh, right? Because the ACE2 receptors are
going to be involved in vasodilator influence. Um, the dysfunction of the endothelial nitric
oxide pathway appears to contribute to the pathophysiology of a variety of cardiovascular
disorders, including hypertension, atherosclerosis, and preeclampsia. In 1980, uh, Frchgott and
Sawadsky reported the relaxation of the rabbit aorta in response to acetylcholine was entirely
dependent on the presence of an intact endothelial lining, uh, of the, of the blood vessel.
Yeah, my understanding is that the respiratory, like, that it's, um, entering through the nasal
passage into the, uh, cavity and then a stents from there, and, um, anosmia is just such a
weird symptom, and so that's why I'm saying it's probably the best marker I can think of.
Um, so, I mean, I, I totally get that, but I'm not, I'm not finding the path, the narrow pathway,
though. Um, because this is, I'm kind of like, yes, I get that part, but I, like, the narrow pathway
is from the sense of smell to the, um, to the olfactory cortex, to the thalamus, to the orbital frontal
cortex, and, and what, and, uh, so I guess my question is, is are there any direct connections
between the, um, the olfactory, um, cortex and the, um, um, the orbital frontal cortex that
do not go through the thalamus? They're just, they're just direct connections between two
areas of the cortex, or are they, like, roped off? And I'm, like, and the other idea is that
I'm thinking is, well, maybe the, the olfactory cortex is technically part of the orbital frontal
cortex. That is all another weird idea that I'm having, because they're saying, like, basically,
like, the, the orbital frontal cortex is on the underside of the, um, prefrontal cortex, and they're
also saying, and in another picture, they're saying that the olfactory, uh, they're describing,
there's one picture that says the, the orbital frontal cortex is on the underside of the, of the
front of the brain, the prefrontal cortex, and then there's another picture says the, um, the orbital
frontal cortex is on the underside of the prefrontal cortex, so, like, either they're both on the
underside of the, of the front of the prefrontal cortex, and they're two different areas, or they're
the same area, and that's what's driving me nuts right now. I'm, like, what is happening? Are they the
same area, or are they two different areas? They're both, like, so there's, and there's no article
that I can find that's addressing this, which is driving me nuts. I'm, like, wait a second,
what do I need to look up to figure this out? How does the, how is the anatomy actually, are
they, are they really the same piece of cortex, or are they different pieces of cortex?
Are you friends with Wissam? You might try picking him in if he's on.
Who, who?
Uh, Wissam, W-I-S-A-M. Let's see, if you want, uh, to invite folks, I made it so you can
both invite folks, and, so, what, we, oh, Wissam, W-I-S-A-M. Yeah, he's not online
right now. Okay, so I sent him an invite, but he, yeah, he says, like, he's not online, okay,
so, oh, goodness, yeah, you know, Wissam usually has a lot of, uh, uh, good knowledge, especially
about dendrites, uh, right, so, yeah, this is, um, quite the mystery, like, okay, we're
talking about the receptors to the epithelium, to, like, the, you know, the, uh, mitral, or
whatever they are, right, to pick it up, or, or did I get lost?
Wait, say, say that again.
Okay, so, let me define a diagram and figure out if I'm, I'm kind of doing that, I'm kind
of, like, being a stoned moron.
Well, it's weird, it's, it's, it's, so, the olfactory bulb, wait a second, because it does
look, it does look like the olfactory bulb is underneath the prefrontal cortex in a separate
piece of tissue, and then that, and then that connects to PC, and PC is the, let me
look at, look at this page, um, yeah, because, because I've been operating under the, uh, sort
of idea that the, so, what's surprising for me today is I've been operating under the idea
that the, um, you know, they say, okay, so if you have, so the, the main, the, the, the,
um, there's several different kinds of senses, but the, but the five that we, that we talk
about the most are your sight, your hearing, uh, touch, taste, and smell, right, and then
you have interior senses as well, and you have other ways of describing sensations, I mean,
that those are just the five big concepts of sensations, but, um, but it's like, the idea
is that your, your, your, your vision, uh, travels to the thalamus and then to the neocortex,
travels from your eyes to the thalamus and then to the neocortex, and that same process
happens with your ears, and it also, that process happen is, happens with your, with your sense
of taste and your sense of, um, touch, is that they, they each travel from, uh, from where
they are to the, basically to somewhere close to the center of the brain where the thalamus
is, and then they travel to the, the neocortex, to some spot in the neocortex, and that's where
the senses enter into the, into the, the big part of the brain, and, but, and then what
I've been told is, like, okay, so basically, like, the no, the olfactory doesn't do that,
but now, which is kind of, like, causing me to, like, go ahead, so what I was saying
was, was, was kind of causing me to become confused, is everyone has been telling me
for years, and I've been believing for, for years, that the olfactory doesn't, doesn't
travel, even, like, in Busaki's book, 2006, is, like, and, and even, like, um, like, this
is something I've heard, I feel like I've heard this over and over from neuroscientists,
and, and, and now, now it's really confusing, because what I'm looking at is, is saying what,
the opposite of what people have been telling me all, all these years, is that the nasal,
the nasal pathways are going through the thalamus, after all, um, before they go to the, the prefrontal
cortex, and, um, the, I'm, like, I'm seeing that right now, and I'm, like, that can't be
right, that's not what I've been hearing my whole life, how is it, how is this happening,
and, um, so this is quite confusing, so I'm really just trying to, like, sort of, like,
have a better understanding of the neural pathways from, from the sense of smell, uh, into the
brain, and then, and then it's, so, you know, smell and taste, and then the sense of taste
goes to your medulla oblongata, and then up, up the pons to the thalamus, to the somatosensory
cortex, let's see, and then, let's see, there's just other, so we have, let me magnify, see if I can
magnify this, this picture, so the olfactory receptor, so if you go on, like, google images,
maybe I should share, share, uh, share this somehow, well, like, shoot, I'm actually, so
I'm actually using my laptop, and then, so I'd have to send the link to myself, and then
I'd have to send it to, um, Clubhouse, so this is, uh, this is a 10-way trip, yeah, so everybody
knows Kyle, right, oh, did we, we lost, uh, we lost somebody, okay, that's okay, it's 11 o'clock,
my, my brain is half asleep, and I, it was, Lisa was, was here, that was nice, of Lisa
to join, uh, yeah, she usually, yeah, has expected, she has unexpected bits of information
to have to wait here, like, good explanations for animals, I think, yeah, um, but, and humans
have some of the same, it's really freaking bizarre, why is everything so much more specific
for, for animals? All right, we need to order, like, a couple hundred humans for some tries.
What'd you say? We need to order what? I was making a really bad joke about ordering humans
for that, it was not a good joke at all, it was not a good joke, I was like, how come the
information is so much more detailed with mice than it is for humans, we can just start
ordering humans for, I see, um, so, uh, is that Zara, or Zera, welcome, um, and, uh, if
you want to join the stage, you can, uh, I think I sent you an invite, but if, but if you
want, uh, to raise your hand also, you can, you can, the, the, um, the scope of the room
is just basically trying, we're trying to understand the neural pathways between the
olfactory, uh, cortex, and, uh, the, um, the prefrontal cortex, and, uh, and the brain,
so basically the neural pathways of smell, and, um, it's kind of a discussion where we can
go on the computer and look up stuff and talk about it, and we're trying to, um, just sort
of discover, so if you, if you want to, uh, just come up and ask a question, it's not,
we don't, it's not really a presentation, so it's not like there's a prepared, you know,
thing happening, it's like, well, what are you curious about, and, uh, what interests you,
and, uh, and then, uh, we can look, we can, then everyone can look it up, and, uh, explore
it, let's see, olfactory bulb, okay, let's see, oh, here we go, this simplified diagram,
for any reason, olfactory bulb, and then this connects to the olfactory tubercle, then it
connects to the piriform cortex, and the interrenal cortex, and the hippocampus, and, um, and the
signals also travel to the contralateral side, so the olfactory, so the olfactory is going
to be right above the, um, right above the, uh, the nose, sort of, or, well, I'm sorry,
not right, it's sort of like, uh, but in, but right above the mouth, if actually, right,
and then it's going to kind of go towards the, uh, thalamets at some point before coming
backwards towards the, uh, the orbital, uh, frontal lobes, which are the underside of
the prefrontal cortex, and, um, so that's what I kind of want to understand, is, can we,
could, could we, like, interpret the orbital frontal cortex as, like, as, like, a sort of
mirror for the, um, here's the thing, is I've always been told that there's the primary sensory
cortices are the somatosensory cortex, which does, uh, taste, and, um, let me, let me pause
my, uh, thought here for a second and just, um, I'm just going to mute myself for a second
if you can think about this here.
