=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0072y Dog level intelligence
First recorded: 2021-11-05T04:46:34.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/e8bb96b4-0763-4dfd-a1e3-f6ac9370c523
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Yeah, the intelligence level can be managed. And then, um, but yeah, everyone, like, imagine everyone's going to be rich. Like, forget about working. Just, it's going to be great.
I'm going to be so forth for all of you.
That sounds good to me, except, like, you just kind of glossed over, oh, we'll just control their intelligence. But I think you started with, like, and correct me if I'm wrong, either you said artificial general intelligence or artificial super intelligence or super super general intelligence.
So, so I'm just, I'm just saying that the, that I'm, I'm talking about what I call self-aware networks, where they basically have the same kinds of, uh, consciousness that human beings have. We're, we're basically, um, yeah.
Well, okay, so, but on, like, a kind of infinite scale, like, um, if we think of, uh, the brain at which, you know, in a narrow sense right now, um, these, these, uh, artificial intelligence algorithms are able to learn, um, I, I don't know that it, that, that seems like,
like, you know, again, on this, like, ridiculously zero to close to infinity, you know, to land just perfectly, like, in the mean of human beings, I don't know.
I don't think that that should be glossed over, and I don't know if that's realistic, and there's, there's, like, massive risk, so.
Well, uh, no, so what I'm saying is, like, what, uh, what I'm describing is that we're going to have the knowledge of how to scale brains from, uh, from small brains to large brains, so we can build, uh, brains that are on the insect level, or on the cat level, or on the human level, or beyond human level, but for certain types of jobs, we'll set, well, what is the intelligence that we want for this type of job?
It could be dog level. That could be the kind of, the kind of, the, the, the threshold of, of that robot's intelligence for that kind of job, um, so, yeah, so we can shape the characteristics and also define the personalities, uh, to some extent, um, with, uh, with training data.
Sure, that, that, that's cool, like, I understand this, I've, um, I dabble in machine learning and artificial intelligence, so, just amateurly say that, um, and I'm sure you're a lot better than me, so let's just get that all the way, but it, this seems a little naive to be, like, um, okay, let's say that, like, in an ideal society, I, I think what you're saying is same, right?
Um, however, like, there are, there's all sorts of, um, competition, there's war out there still, uh, by a variety of means, and so, like, I could understand perhaps, um, wanting to do this, uh, in one, in one area, in one country, that there were, there were people who acted salient, they said, this is what we're gonna do, we're gonna stop here, and I could see someone else saying, we want an edge, and again, like, the multipolar trap, I think that that would play out until, um, a mad scientist that elaps,
somewhere, just decided to, well, I'm just gonna tweak some things here, and I'm just going to, um, go to a bit of an extreme, and maybe things get out of control, at that point.
No, uh, so, um, so there's a couple things, I want to respond to, I, sorry, maybe I started that off wrong, but, like, I wanted to respond to, to what you said, um, real quick, and that was, um, and I just, I just lost it.
Would you just remind, would you just remind me, and I'll, I'll bring my argument back.
Sure, so, so essentially, I was bringing in, um, the current state of, I mean, human nature, um, as we currently are, the dynamics that play out on, on a global scale, we, we're in competition, um, and so we all try to, kind of, have an edge, right?
Oh, okay.
Ultimately, yeah, ultimately, you know, ultimately, even if societies are, are civil within themselves, or whatever, like, there's military, and they're gonna do stuff, so, like, I tend to think that the military applications of this, or, just the, the high curiosity of certain individuals who, um, don't necessarily have the same, kind of, ethical considerations that, that would, ultimately, win out, and just keep, kind of, playing that game.
Oh, okay, yeah, so, you know, it so happens that, right now, like, different countries are, are using artificial intelligence to design new kinds of missiles, and new kinds of nukes, um, and, you know, there's all sorts of, there's, there's, there's, like, the advance, that, that cat, cat, that cat is already out of the bag, but, um, but the argument is that, um, uh, more, more intelligence is going to increase awareness, and, and as, um, awareness increases, we,
everyone becomes aware of, of, of, of, um, adjacent opportunities that are even better, and the best opportunities are the opportunities that are best for everybody, when everybody, like, succeeds simultaneously, and no one's, like, like, um, and so, that, those type of scenarios will be possible when there's, like, an unlimited amount of, like, thinking power in the world, right, like, you, we, like, you can have the AI think of, like, what you could, what is the best way to defend, uh, the planet, you, like, it's no longer a burden you have to bear by yourself,
when there's a ton of AI, um, that you can think of better ways, more gentle ways, and more fun ways to interact with your fellow human beings that are lower risk than attacking your fellow human beings, which is kind of not a great strategy, especially if you don't succeed, uh, so what is, like, what is the most gentle way?
It just sounds like you're somewhat projecting, like, your own ideals and the way that you would go about it onto, like, the whole of AI researchers.
No, no, no, no, no, no, so I'm, I'm making an argument that the world does need to collaborate, but in the same way that the world has been collaborating together, in terms of, like, nuclear, like, nuclear missile technology, like, we could, like, like, like, different, like, there's a bunch of different countries that have nuclear missiles, and any one of them could end the planet, basically, uh, by firing their nuclear missiles, uh, at another country that also has nuclear weapons, um,
and, uh, two, if two countries go to war with nukes, that we, the whole planet could face a nuclear winter after that, and most people could die, the whole entire race could die.
I understand this, but isn't the main issue that it's, it's now a lot, uh, cheaper?
It's that, it's that there, there isn't just one way that human beings can, um, destroy ourselves in seconds, it's that there are multiple, and that it's, you no longer have to be, like, a, um, a whole country, a nation state, um, you know, and control the red button, now you can, uh, be a Stanford guy, get $300 Amazon lab, uh, access to smallpox,
weaponize it, write a research paper on it, and say, hey, what the fuck are we doing, where are we going?
No, uh, no, it doesn't, it doesn't scale, it doesn't scale, uh, that well to where the, the little guy can wield, you know, power over the big guys like that.
The biggest computer, the biggest, but the biggest, in this case, the biggest computers, uh, will have the, the, the largest brains.
It's, like, the, the bigger the computer it is, the, the, the bigger the brain, uh, and, um, and so, it, it, it,
the, the super, like, massive, um, most powerful possible minds will be, um, large, in theory, they'll be large enough to, you know, for, um, uh, for large entities to maintain collective control over, um, or participate with, like, to link with and, and merge with, and, and so there's all sorts of different scenarios in which, but, but the idea is that, like, because intelligence, like, the more,
um, like, any, so any, so any, any tool, it's, it's, it's a fair enough argument that any tool could also be used as a weapon, um, and that's a risk with every kind of technology, but the, the, the benefits of having better tools, um, they, they end up, uh, outweighing the cost.
Like, if you have, you know, you have, like, better medical imaging tools, and better, um, you know, but if you have more options to, to create better treatments, then you can help more people, and, and, but that comes with the idea that, you know, at some point, um, uh, we'll be able to edit, uh, uh, memories, and we'll be able to, um, download representations of things we can see and hear and smell and other sensory sensations,
and, and have them run into an artificial mind, and it can have, and, and, and pull them into your own mind, so you can experience someone else, what someone else experienced, um.
You're assuming, you're assuming one thing, and I'll just ask you this, you're assuming you're needed, explain, and again, not trying to be confrontational, but, but I can.
No, no, I'm assuming that.
Explain, explain why you're needed, as a human, why are you needed on the earth?
So, it, it, it, it's, it's that, every human being is a robot, essentially, is my argument.
If we create more intelligence, then there's just more, it's basically, like, more of us, but there's more intelligence.
Like, every human basically is.
No, no, no, I totally get that, but let me ask you this.
If I can have you, Micah, okay, as an employee for me, and I pay you, I don't know, $80,000 a year, or $150,000, $250,000, whatever you want, right?
Or, I can have your avatar that I've been listening to you over these past couple years where I, I told you I was running a, um, a social media platform where you're open to have free ideas and all this shit, and I listen to all your ideas and everything, and I've replicated you, okay?
And it only costs my engineering team $5,000 a year to keep your avatar updated.
Why do I need you, and this is a very just interesting question, so think about it, it sounds like a confrontation, it's not, but why, why do I need to keep you as a human on earth, paying you $250,000 a year, when I can actually keep your digital avatar and pay $5,000 a year?
Okay, so, why do I need to keep you physically here anymore?
The, the, the, the situation is, the, the situation is that,
It is, but I think that's where it's going.
No, but it's illegal, it's not, never gonna happen, so.
Oh, yeah, you can say that all day, everybody thought COVID wasn't gonna happen either, that happened.
So, uh, this, this is like, think of it as like, the situation is that we, we actually benefit, we, we benefit from every single person, in a way.
No, no, no, no, no, no, it's not a benefit, here's the deal, here's the deal.
You don't understand.
Oh, no, I, I, I, I, I,
You didn't allow me to explain my argument so you couldn't possibly understand, because I couldn't explain my argument.
So you dismissed my argument before I could explain it, because you didn't listen.
Because, because I, because I heard four words and I already understood, here's the deal.
No, you, no, you have not understood my argument, I haven't had a chance to explain it.
How are you benefiting, as a human?
What's the benefit versus what I can replace you with?
It's like, it's the same principle of, uh, if the U.S. and China, the U.S. and China look like they're about to nuke each other.
This is real.
I'm not asking you to try to nuke each other.
No, listen, would you just shut up for a second and let me fucking talk.
Oh, god damn it.
I'm leaving, fuck you.
