=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0084y White blood cell Neurons Activity
First recorded: 2021-11-01T17:30:31.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/98d9791d-bec9-4b58-a042-5d0e21118957
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So the argument goes that there could be multiple layers of consciousness that are happening simultaneously and are not aware of each other.
So that's like, and some of them could be, it's like, it's like the, they could be multi-causal.
So, so for example, like imagine that you had, um, imagine that you, you have the, uh, the ionotropic brain, right, and that it has self-awareness, um, right, is in terms of like, imagine that the, with the electric field interacting, uh, with charged ions that the, uh,
that would be like, the neurons would represent, shit, this is hard, it's actually pretty hard, um, even though like, okay, I've sort of like already thought this through, but now I'm like rethinking it.
It's like, um, okay, so what would happen is the electric field, okay, would be, um, modified by, um, the neurons, which would then, and it would modify the neural activity, right?
So the electric field would, and the, so the electrical activity would cause, uh, neural activity to trigger, and neural activity would cause, would result in electrical activity being triggered.
And, um, so you could say that there's, there could be like an electric brain that is basically, um, the brain taking in patterns from the electric field and returning patterns to the electric field, right?
So the electric field represents, um, um, a changing sequence of patterns that is correlating with neural activity.
And interact, it's, it's, it's actually, the electric field is, you could say it's interacting, uh, with neural activity or allowing neural activity to interact with neural activity through the electric field, okay?
And, um, and, um, that in a sense, it could be that there's a representation of, of reality in the electric field.
Now, uh, and now on the magnetic field, um, there could also be, uh, representation of reality in the magnetic field that could be decoupled from the representation of reality in the electric field.
So it's sort of like another, um, so it's sort of like another, another perspective, another consciousness that is basically a sequence of patterns playing out over time that are, um, that are being read by other pattern makers and, uh, which are making patterns that are read by other pattern makers in a virtuous cycle
that forms the fabric of, of, of self-aware consciousness, okay?
And, um, so, the virtuous cycle of self-aware pattern makers.
Yeah, right?
Um, and, so, if I reverse my, so, so there's a, uh, there's potentially a, an electric, electric field brain.
Uh, a magnetic field brain.
Uh, and, uh, mechanical wave or acoustic brain in terms of, you know, every time a neuron fires, it's going to create a mechanical wave that somehow, uh, or a mechanical wave that could also be an acoustic wave that, um, affects the brain.
It's a vibratory structure, um, or evokes the vibratory structure.
So, that's, like, imagine, like, a neuron was, like, a drum and that its drum beat could be physically sort of felt and, uh, as a vibration by other cells, by glial cells.
And then transferred, vibrations could be transferred among glial cells to other cells.
And they would, and they would eventually, like, they would cause, like, physical knocks on each other.
Like, uh, like, oscillators, like, oscillating pendulism, like, pendulum, um, pendulums, like, pendulums and oscillation in the same room in close proximity, like, eventually becoming in sync with each other's oscillation because they're giving each other little knocks.
They're dissipating the difference between them, uh, they're dissipating the difference between them, so they all, because, they all enter into a common oscillation.
And it's basically, like, um, they're distributing, uh, their energy and it causes them to fire and, uh, eventually to fire at the, in, in, at the same time.
And, uh, it's like the elimination of free energy.
Uh, you know, you know, and, and, and you could describe it like that.
I'm not sure if that's correct, but, so, yeah, in the Neural Ace podcast season one, episode three, I actually, um, uh, talked, I spoke to a, uh, a brilliant scientist, Andrew, Andrew Watson.
And, uh, we, and he helped, uh, identify the, uh, ionotropic brain and the metabolotropic brain, which is interesting.
Because, because, because the metabolotropic is basically, like, the argument for how, um, you know, intel, there, there could be, uh, there could be yet, uh, another, uh, sort of, like, um, chem, another chemical sort of, like, awareness.
Right?
Right?
So there's all these different possibilities.
There could be some sort of, like, I, you know, how the, how, how the metabolotropic brain works, I, I, it's just that, you know, if you look at what neurons are doing, like, for example, like, um, with white blood cells, you have, you have, um, cells that are guiding white blood cells to their target.
And one, uh, sort of, uh, sort of, uh, hypothesis that I, I have, and I'm, I'm not sure if I read it somewhere, or if it's something I came up with, but I'll have to, I'll have to find out.
What is the, is the idea that, um, that the, this, this, this, the cells are transmitting the location through, um, uh, stimulus.
Like, so, like, so, like, so, like, the wound, when you're in pain, you're sending lots of signals, right?
You're sending extra signals.
When a part of you, it's, like, a lot of, a lot of signals, and it hurts, because you're getting a ton of, like, uh, patterns from the, the, uh, a ton of signal patterns from the, uh, a ton of signal patterns from the part of your body that's in pain.
And it becomes distracting to, like, to everything else that you're doing, right?
It really, like, um, becomes part of your focus.
And so, when you, when you have, you have, um, you know, certain things like sedatives, or certain things that sort of, like, um, depress the, the, the, the intense firing, or, or, or stimulate firing in other areas that are not that painful areas, then you could have some sort of, you could have some sort of distraction.
Like, if you're, like, if you're, like, in VR, or if you're smoking weed, you have a distraction, you may not, the, the, the amplification of your, uh, of, uh, the pain signals is either, uh, inhibited, or, um, it's, um, it's diminished by contrast to other, to other, uh, uh, kinds of, uh, signals created by other kinds of stimulus.
So, it's either inhibited or obscured by contrast.
Like, if the pain is a bright light, but you give yourself a lot of other bright lights, then you, then you, um, then that one bright light is known as, is by contrast, no longer as bright, relatively speaking, compared to the other bright lights.
Um, but the, um, but then the issue is, uh, you've got to, if you're gonna, if you're gonna do a lot more stimulation, then you need, you need to be taking in, uh, maybe some more, uh, fuel, more ATP.
So, I think I was just saying that if you are addressing pain by increasing excitation in other areas of the brain, then you're gonna need more ATP, which, um, needs more food.
Um, and, uh, uh, inhibitory signaling, I guess would also cost more food, um, or more ATP, more energy, because you have to assign, so, yeah, it'd be like, um, assigning circuits to do inhibitory signaling to, to, um,
Um, but it's interesting that the, the rapid signaling, if the rapid signaling is actually driving growth, um, through a sort of, uh, through the principles of oscillation, uh, of then, uh, or through, or I guess through, you know, also magnetism, electromagnetism, um, but kind of, kind of both.
Right?
It's like, you know, growth through both, um, electromagnetic signaling and, um, chemical and vibrational signaling.
So, I would, I, I kind of consider that maybe the, um, metabotropic brain over, um, overlays with the, with the mechano, mechano receptor, uh, meta, um,
um, acoustic magnetic brain, like, um, I mean, did I say, no, acoustic mechanical, uh, wave brain, that the, the, the, the actual, like, the way the metabotropic brain might accomplish signaling is, is coupled to the, um,
um, the mechanical wave or, or vibrational acoustic wave signaling.
And then that is how, that's part of how, like, um, that signaling would be part of how a cell could guide a white blood cell to the location of an injury.
Thank you.
