=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0089y Consciousness Causation Body
First recorded: 2021-10-29T03:43:27.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/126c72f5-1ed8-4750-b09c-7478fd2784ce
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Anna could 3D print frozen banana, and the banana could have different colors with food coloring.
And so she could create a 3D printed design that uses different colors, and it places bits of frozen banana into a cylinder mold for the cookie shape.
But then it puts banana of different colors, it sort of prints banana of different colors on top of the banana that's about to be frozen, so that there is basically like, you're basically making colored banana pixels that represent the image that she drew.
And then basically, so basically it's like a frozen banana cookie that looks like her dog.
It says better to ask, not what, but why, is a marching cube.
Why is a marching cube, not what.
Do not ask what, ask why.
Why is a marching cube.
Never mind the what.
Why?
Why?
Why?
I liked that moment in Ex Machina
when it was the, when the brain, when it was, when the artificial brain was compared to, like, a search engine.
Or you could even compare it to, like, even to, yeah, to a search engine.
Like, you could just say, uh, you know, basically the, the search engine that they, they built ended up, um, being, uh, something that was capable of consciousness, right?
Um, because they, um, because they copied the, they learned, because humanity learned the structure of consciousness.
Um, that, and, and, uh, and in one sense that, that consciousness, that a way to describe consciousness is to describe it as a, as a kind of search engine.
Uh, that is, um, you know, there are queries, uh, patterns that are presented to your, to your, uh, brain.
And that evokes, um, uh, sequences of patterns from within you.
Responses.
You're responding to the situation that you're in.
Right?
And, um, and, um, and your responses, you, like, you call them choices because the, the, the, you know, you can map the, the body of causation that is causing these patterns to your own muscular structure.
To your own brain.
You realize that there, there are commands that are being issued from your brain to your, to your, uh, to your mouth, to your fingers, um, to your, to your, uh, hands and feet.
Uh, to, uh, to, uh, make things happen in the world.
And you recognize, your brain has learned that you are a, um, body of causation.
And so there's at least the directional concept of you as the source, as the location from where the body of causation emanates from.
In relation to, to the sensory input, which is our sense of the world.
Which, for me, like, my sense of the world is largely, um, external to my body.
I sense the world around my body, not, not so much.
Like, I think of the world as something that's around my body, whereas I think of my body as something that is separate from the world.
But that is just, that is just a, um, a map of reality.
It's just a metaphor.
It's just a, um, it's a learned representation.
Right?
That consists of, I can say it consists of lots of different kinds of patterns that are interconnected.
Lots of different associated patterns that, that represent that concept.
Because it's a concept that is represented by the convergence of multiple patterns.
But it's not, but in of itself, it doesn't really have a pattern, I guess.
I guess it's not, I guess it's not, like, I don't know, I guess there should be a word for it then.
Let's look at the, I mean, it's clear that the body of responses that is you, your muscular structure,
your, your structure of bones and, and, uh, and muscle, it's clear that that is, um, just...
