=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0095y Realization Keywords Inflammation
First recorded: 2021-10-25T02:27:59.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/d70c7bfa-1c0b-4097-8700-3d20f05db5fd
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
The hypothesis that I'm favoring suggests that realization is a differential pattern in the phase field of the brain.
When you realize something, the neural correlate of that is an electromagnetic phase change that is tracked by dendrites, and oscillation provides the ability for the brain to integrate patterns together, similar to neural pipes, innovation, and integrating unstructured sets of data from the heart and the brain.
I'm using EEG by using a time series correlation to begin the mapping of the variations between the heart frequencies and the brain frequencies.
The influence of inflammation on your brain is, it seems like that might be inhibiting brain activity.
Like maybe it's, maybe inflammation as particles actually somehow, you know, slow down the delivery of blood, or blood oxygen, or maybe they, I don't know, maybe there's some sort of like, I was going to say polluting of the neurotransmitter sort of mix.
But I don't know how that would work.
But it's, it's, it's, it's an interesting idea, like, somehow, like, it, it might, uh, cause, um, synaptic transmission to slow down because there's not enough, because ATP delivery is inhibited, um, because ATP is needed to fight the fires caused by inhibition elsewhere in the body.
Okay.
The demands of blood flow might be increasing to deal with inflammation, which is, you know, yourselves are, uh, in the process of being damaged.
Okay, so what was this about?
Let's see, favoring against realization.
Okay, so let's go live.
Michael, you're on live, and I want you to tell us about the structure of the book.
Okay, so I'm going to be recording you while you go ahead and sort of talk yourself through, um, organizing the books here.
Okay, so you're going to use your voice to sort of, like, anchor the, um, your mind to what you're working on.
So, um, let's see, what am I working on that's relevant to organizing the books?
So we need to get off Facebook.
Good.
So I think it is helping me to focus on that, basically, on Facebook.
It's the first thing.
First thing we want to do.
I'm writing a book.
Get off Facebook.
Okay.
So let's see.
Now, we've got this thing called the Non-Linear, we've got a page up called the Non-Linear Dendritic Integration of Sensor and Motor Input During an Active Sensing Path.
Okay, so the question is, what do we want to do with this document?
What do we want to find right now?
What, what's my, what's my focus right now?
How am I going to do this?
So, I want to get out of the document scale, first of all.
I need to get back up to the high-level mind map scale.
So where's, where's the mind map?
Okay, so let's see.
This is mind map scale.
And there we go.
Okay.
So there's mind map scale.
And I want to actually, uh, look at, let's see, where's the, where's the table of contents?
Yeah.
This is, uh, this is a pinned post.
Right.
Should be a pinned post.
Is this?
Oh, I see.
Okay.
So awareness needs to be, like, actually, it should be like, uh, so now I'm going to add
awareness as a key word.
So let's pause for a second.
Okay.
So I'm just going to do like a sub recording.
So I want to, the reason I want to bring keywords into this, um, is that's, that's, keywords
are going to help me to, um, have, see these are my tags.
So I kind of want to write down all my tags.
And I want to turn all of my, like, chapter names and topic names into tags as well.
Okay.
So I'm just going to write that down.
Okay.
I mean, I've recorded it right now, but I'm great to ask them.
So, let's combine the list of tags with the, um, list of topics, list of chapters.
So this is arguments.
Okay.
Um.
So, yeah.
So.
Would you say it's a topic or an argument?
So, where's the one, where's the note called, um, I see myself as, um.
Du, urban, five differentworthy.
Game DSer.
And we have non-game videos.
