=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0106y Sensory Arrays Ions Potassium Neuron
First recorded: 2021-10-21T19:19:58.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/d3b5ca9a-60aa-4f29-a791-7d9ccd75f182
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So the book is to start a conversation. I wanted to write down sort of like a large summary of where I'm at now, and then I want to take the different, I want to bring this book sort of with me so I can interview people, probably on Clubhouse, and we can record our conversations.
And, you know, I can record it and publish it, and it will be the Neural Lace podcast.
Now, I've already done many past, I've done several past recordings of the Neural Lace podcast, but what I believe is, so there's stuff in the past you can check out, you can listen to old recordings.
But, um, but, so I believe that the ideas that I'm sharing in this book, you know, some of them could be right, some of them may not be right, most of them probably need to be updated.
There's probably, like, you know, sometimes you, like, you don't realize what's missing until you, like, try to, like, really dive into the weeds between, like, you say, like, I can describe, like, two, like, two steps, uh, in a, in a physical process, and, and the mechanical operations of the brain.
But then it's like, oh, wait a second, well, how, well, what's in between those two steps?
Like, what is actually happening, materially and physically, between those two steps?
Like, there's more, sometimes there's, like, there's more to explore than you realize.
Um, you know, like, especially, like, if you have a limited model of the, of the brain that is about, of the neuron that is about, you know, okay, you've got sodium ions, and you've got potassium ions, and, like, you suddenly realize, but wait a second, how, how, how, when the sodium ions come in,
how do they stay separate from the potassium ions, right?
And when the potassium ions go out, how do they stay separate from them?
Like, you have to, you have to realize that, okay, well, they're, you know, you talk to someone and say, well, there's a different, there's a different sort of salinity.
It's like, it's like two oceans that don't mix.
Right?
You can put different kinds of, of ions next to each other.
There's calcium ions basically sitting right next to sodium ions, and they don't mix.
Um, and it's like, it's like two fluids of different salinity don't, don't mix.
Um, you can see that in, in the cases where, you know, you, you, you look at, uh, one ocean meeting another ocean, and there's two different colors for two different bodies of water, and they're not mixing together.
Um, it's, um, but, so in any case, um, that's sort of the, that's sort of the situation, is, is that the brain is, is, um, but you might, but you might not know, you, you might not realize, like, your level of detail, like, you know, you might not realize that when an action potential happens that the, um, uh, that the neuron actually expands physically.
Like, like, there's an actual mechanical wave that is speculated to be propagating through the membrane, which is held together with the membrane or the, uh, of, of the cell, separates the in, the inside of the cell from the outside of the cell.
There's, there's, there's thought to be that electromagnetism is holding the membrane of the cell, and it expands, and so the cell expands when the action potential fires, like a balloon expanding.
And, and, and, and it's thought that that that is creating a, a, a, a mechanical wave, a solitone wave, an acoustical wave, a lot, uh, perhaps a longitudinal acoustic, acoustic wave, because, um, there's definitely, like, that expansion is definitely, um, you know, think of it as, like, a sine wave, right?
A sine wave is, like, is, like, up in the, in the, um, you know, it's like a, it's like, it's like a, it's like a sound wave.
But then there's also, like, it's also speculated that the, the action potential, because it is, if you think about it, it flows along a direction.
But the action direction is the body of the, of the, of the cell.
So it has, but it has a forward direction.
It's like a vector in space, almost.
It's not, not necessarily a perfect vector, but, but, but, but it has a direction.
And it, and so it's speculated that it has, um, that it's creating a, um, uh, what's called an, an electromagnetic solitone.
Um, uh, a, a, a longitudinal, longitudinal electromagnetic solitone wave that has effects in both, um, uh, the, the electricity graph and the magnetic graph.
The magnetic field.
The magnetic field and the electric field.
It's a simultaneous activity.
So we have three kinds of solitone waves, mechanical, electric, uh, and magnetic, magnetic happening simultaneously.
With every action potential.
And you, like, like, like most of the stuff that, like, you may not realize that information is missing from your model of a neuron.
You know, it, there's, there's, um, in terms of, like, um, the, there's, there's four different possibilities when it comes to, uh, neurotransmitters, uh, being sent out.
Um, and you may not realize this is missing from your model of a neuron.
But you could have between 0, 1, 2, and 3 vesicles being released.
Right?
And the, and, and that is going to be based on the, um, shape of the action potential.
Whether you get 0, 1, 2, or 3 released.
And the shape of the action potential is, is, uh, based upon, uh, calcium, uh, sorry, it's based upon, um, potassium.
And, and how, and how quickly potassium was able to either inhibit the cell or, or repolarize it.
Um, so, if more potassium receptors are opened by, um, by nearby neurons, then the cell could be inhibited or, um, or, uh, or it could, or it could have a shorter wave.
Right?
Shorter wave.
So that means that the sodium opens the wave and the potassium closes the wave.
And if, if potassium opens sooner or faster, if potassium opens faster, um, because more channels are, are pulling it, then the wave is going to end, um, sooner.
And so, fewer, in that case, I would expect fewer, um, micro, uh, fewer vesicles to release, to be released.
So that, so you might, in that case, you might only have one, um, vesicle release.
And so one vesicle release is, is, uh, maybe 2,000 ions.
I mean, sorry, 2,000 neurotransmitters.
Like dopamine or, or GABA.
Or acetylcholine.
And, um, or serotonin.
Right?
But there's another, there's another thing.
So if this, so if your model of the neuron is now that you've got, um, you know, sodium, and you've got, uh, ions, and you've got calcium and, and potassium, and, and you've got neurotransmitters.
Um, neurotransmitters like GABA, and acetylcholine, and dopamine, if, if that's, if, if, if you may not know that, that you're also missing the fact that among those neurotransmitters, um, are, are things like, um, ATP.
That when the, the ATP gets in the mix, that you're, that your cell is, is bringing in ATP.
Uh, it's bringing in the energy, the energy of, of, uh, ATP is your energy currency.
That's like a little battery.
It's bringing in little batteries.
ATP is a little battery for your cells.
Right?
It's your energy.
And, um, so when the neuron fires, it's bringing in, I mean, when the synapse is open and after the neuron fires, it's, it's, um, it's transmitting energy also.
So neurons are, are, they're, um, they're bringing in energy when, when the synapse is open.
But, and, um, the, I mean, the, the, I mean, the post synapse is bringing in energy.
So it's, it's interesting.
It's like, right?
It's like, that is like, you know, you think about the fact that, um, you know, there is basically like a tonic firing rate that does it, that's where the, that's, that's, the brain is all synchronizing together.
And, um, you know, Dr. Peter C., he, he, he, he, he's, um, he's a neuroscientist from, who's, uh, professor at Princeton.
And, and he wrote this, the Criterial Causation book, The Neural Basis of Free Will Criterial Causation.
And he, um, um, you know, points out that basically if, if all the cells are firing at the same rate, there's no information in that pattern.
It's like they're, it's like they all have, that, you know, there's, there's no complexity to that, that you, how you can't write a sentence in that necessarily.
If, if every, if every neuron is firing together, there's, the neurons are not making distinctions.
Or at least the pattern distinctions are really, um, insignificant to contain the complexity of our, of our lived experience.
Um, so that can't, so it's, you know, it's like, well, how, how,
it doesn't make sense that oscillations could contain consciousness because, um, uh, you know,
if you're only, if you're only considering the fact that they're, that the, um, that's, you know, um,
um, but in any case, it, it, there is a, there is a way, um, um, um, and, um, so that is something I get into another, in another chapter, um, how oscillations, uh, contribute to our sense of reality.
Um, um, but the point was that, um, you know, neurons sort of, like, have a mouth.
They're feeding through the dendrite, right?
And, um, so, but like, like, like, um, and, like dissipative systems, they, uh, they all, they have to intake, um, energy in order to maintain their own equilibrium.
And they have to expel, um, extra P to the surrounding environment.
So I would expect that the, you know, I guess that, um, you know, in theory there, that if the neuron might be expelling some sort of waste product from the, from the exit terminal, in theory, uh, it could be that the, I mean,
it could be that the waste product could be considered to be, um, like, the, the soliton waves, right?
The electric, magnetic, and, um, mechanical field waves.
Electric, magnetic, and mechanical field waves.
Yeah.
That's interesting, because a mechanical field wave, right, is, is just a, it's just the, a wave that, that is happening at the scale of, of molecules and chemicals.
So, in a sense, it's just a larger wave.
So a mechanical field wave is still an electromagnetic wave, in a sense.
It's, uh, it's just a larger scale wave that happens, uh, at the mechanical level.
But it's, but essentially both kinds of waves are, are, um, the same, it's the same, it's the same, it's the same fractal.
It's like there's a, it's like the universe is a fractal of wave patterns.
A fractal of wave patterns is, it sometimes becomes cyclone patterns, right?
And, um, and those are the, those are the kind, and, and I, you know, I, the wave pattern, again, I think it's, by itself, is, is oscillatory in nature.
Right?
From either being, like, in a solid state or in a wave state.
But the constant, sort of, like, a constant oscillation between, um, you know, cresting and flowing.
Like, cresting and flowing.
Like, the solid state is, like, the crest of the wave.
And, which is, like, it's almost like the whole wave pauses for a second as it crests.
Not really, but it's almost like it.
And then it, and then it, and then it starts to flow in the other direction.
Right?
So it lifts, sort of, like, lifts up.
And then the, the direction of the flow shifts.
Right?
It's kind of like, right, like a wave has a, has a flow.
Right?
And so, like, yeah, so maybe the peak of the wave is, like, the, um, the peak of the particle.
And then, um, when, and then the rest, and the particle has motion.
And the motion is just, like, when the wave is not at its peak.
When it's not a particle mode.
It, it is, um, it's falling from particle mode back to motion mode.
Until it eventually gets back to particle mode again.
Right?
And that, and that's why the, the, the particle either, um, has a location or a momentum.
It's literally oscillating between, um, being, the, a wave being at, at, at, at its peak.
Like, cresting.
And then a wave, sort of, like, collapsing again.
Into the sea.
And it's interesting to think of, like, the, um, you know.
You think of how the moon's gravity is, affects the waves on, on, um, on Earth.
Right?
And, and think about that because it's, like, um,
Um, the ocean is, is, is also, like, a big particle field.
And, um, that means that the electromagnetic and mechanical fields.
Electric, magnetic, and mechanical fields.
Which are all EM fields.
Which is at different scales.
Um, that these are, um, all being interact, they're all being interacted with by the gravitational force.
Right?
There is an, there is interactivity between gravity and the electromagnetic fields.
Because, because, um, you know, we, like, gravity is sort of described at the, um, at the, um, classical scale.
Or the, um, the, um, the, uh, the molecule scale.
Right?
But mechanical waves are really just fractals of, of, of, uh, EM waves.
They're just larger scale fractals of EM waves.
Right?
And, um, so, so, um, but yeah.
Yeah, so, it's, it's interesting that, like, you know, so the neurotransmitters that get expelled from one neuron, they don't, like, like I said, there's, they don't go into, um, the body of the next cell.
So, um, they stay in the synaptic cleft and they're either, like, swept away, like the brain, like, sweeps away that space and the stuff in it.
Or, or, um, which is, and, and then, so what does go into the neuron is, is the, the sodium that's nearby.
So, um, so the, the receptor is, is carefully, is carefully configured to only accept, um, like, sodium ions or only accept potassium ions.
So, you're not getting a bunch of, like, uh, but also, but also ATP flows in.
So, somehow ATP is, like, right in, in the, in the, in the, it's, somehow it's, it gets into, I have to figure out how this works.
So, somehow I think it, it gets into the sodium and then it comes, it comes into the, um, neurotransmitter with the sodium.
So, ATP can be, like, um, another way that you're, like, the presence of ATP, I guess, could be, um, it, it's, it's another component.
Because it has, ATP has to come into the cell, uh, because it's used by the nucleus of the cell.
It's used by, um, the microtubule.
So, it has to get into the cell somehow.
This is a needed thing.
The cell has to intake ATP.
It needs, it needs energy.
It needs power to keep cycling, like a dissipative system.
I just thought of, like, another cavity.
So, your mouth is, like, another cavity, right?
Where, um, your tongue is basically, like, the hand of the mouth.
It's basically, like, but it's, it's flat enough that it could be, it could be wrapping around, like, the bottom of your mouth, right?
Like, like, your tongue could be, in theory, like, you could think of your tongue as, like, a retina, right?
But instead of being, like, stuck to the inside of the eyeball or the cavity of your mouth, um, it mostly sticks to the bottom of your mouth.
But it, uh, but it, it has evolved to be a muscle that can push, um, food around your mouth.
Push food towards your teeth, for example.
So, you can crunch food and, um, that will help you to, um, uh, digest.
It helps your digestive system.
It's part of your digestive system for you to, for your saliva to get all over your food and, and for your food to be ground with your teeth.
And, um, your tongue helps that, but your tongue also senses what the food is.
It senses, has sensors on it, has taste buds, right?
And, um, so those sensors, um, are really important.
Um, but it basically, like, yeah, so your eyeball is a, is, um, is a circular cavity that contains sensors around the interior.
Sort of, like, they create, think of it as, like, an array.
It's a sensor array, right?
And your hand has sensors all over the whole surface of your hand, so your hand is a sensor array, right?
The cells have, are, are sensors.
And you have an array of sensing cells over all of your skin, right?
And then you, so your tongue is an array of sensors.
In the interior of your mouth is also, but your tongue has special sensors, right?
And, um, and, um, because you don't taste things on the top of your mouth while you do on your tongue.
There's just, there's, you know, there's, but you can think of, like, the tongue is basically, like,
it's analogous to, to a hand in that it moves around.
Uh, and, and, but it, but it's, but it's also, you know, analogous to, um, to the eye in that it's, it's, um, it's inside a spherical cavity.
So the spherical cavity is your, uh, it's like a sensor array inside a spherical cavity.
So you have a spherical cavity that's your, that's your eye, has a sensor inside it.
Um, the, the, uh, you know, it's where you, you point, the ears are, you know, you can, when you, when people draw ears,
they often draw, like, ovals, right?
So it has a, the ear has, like, an oval shape and it has, like, smaller oval shapes inside.
As you go, if you look at the, if you look at the, um, it's almost like, it's almost like, um, it has, you know,
it's like a series of, like, oval shapes as you go, as you, as you, um, explore the, the 3D topology, uh, of, of a neuron.
And it almost, so I almost think of it as like an inverted tree branch.
Like, this is where a tree, like, if you created a mold for a tree branch and maybe it would look like your ear, right?
Where it's, where the empty space sort of looks branch-like as it, as it goes from larger to smaller with your ear.
And, um, and so the sound, I guess, is, is, you know, it's, um, it's traveling in scale.
The sound travels in scale from, from, from your ear is like, it's like a cone that takes a big sound and shrinks it down.
Right?
So, um, it shrinks it down so that, so that it's, it's got, there's another, inside another cavity inside your ears.
Now, there are, um, there are, uh, basically hairs, um, connected to neurons, basically.
Hair cells that are detecting the vibrations of your, of the sounds.
But it's like, again, it's like a sensor array that is doing, that, that is capable of four-dimensional tomographic tomography.
You say that each of the sensory rays are sort of capable of four-dimensional tomography, or at least collecting the signals of four-dimensional tomography.
And, in four-dimensional tomography, basically, it's like collecting all of the signals of, of, um, of a four-dimensional phase field.
So that the, so that the brain can, at some point, put those signals together and construct a four-dimensional phase field to represent the modality that's being studied.
To represent the, the world that's being refracted by light.
To represent the details of, uh, sounds, of where the, where the sounds are coming from in that world.
And, um, um, the details of what's being touched, if, if it, if it, if it can't be seen.
And then also, that also helps establish the correlations between sight and sound and touch.
So, so you can realize that what you're touching and what you're seeing and what you're hearing, uh, could all be the same thing.
You know, or they could be different things.
And, and so this is what the, this is what the arrays of, of the brain are useful for.
And then, so, like, okay, so, like, but then the question is, even if we were intaking all these different points,
these, these point, these point-filled arrays, and constructing internal modalities,
who's, who's inside us to observe this happening?
And that is where, that's where we get to the next, the next step.
