=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0101y Syllables Pattern Synapses
First recorded: 2021-10-23T00:42:55.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/d49b7ad1-f4fc-4b94-a601-f78ec0cf0633
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
My time with the machine set up, with the brain simulation machines, with the process that I call the Neo Mind Cycle treatment, the Neo Mind Cycle Alternative Biotherapy treatment, you know, it's neurofeedback, so I call it the Neo Mind Cycle.
So, neurofeedback was another part of the inspiration, the word Neo Feedback is close to the word Neo Mind Cycle, neurofeedback.
It's got like, there's three large, three large, I mean, so neuro is two syllables, but neurofeed is, but they're really close together.
And then you have feed, which is almost in one syllable, and then back, which is another syllable.
So, you have four syllables, but they're sort of spaced, like as if there are three, so neurofeedback, sort of spaced as if there are three syllables, because two of them are real close to each other.
And then you have Neo Mind Cycle, so Neo is technically also two syllables, or two, yeah, Neo, and then you have Mind, and the Cycle is two, Cycle is two syllables, right there.
So, but the purpose of this was that my time with, you know, I had about two years in which I was periodically subjecting my brain to this really advanced neurofeedback with light and sound.
So, it was a lot of treatments, a lot of self-treatments, and that, in hindsight, I'm like, wow, my brain was, my brain went through some radical transformations between then and now.
Like, I've, I've, I've gone through so many, um, character, like, um, character evolutions.
Like, I've, I've, um, I feel like I've lived through different personalities, uh, and seen and absorbed.
I feel like, um, you know, like, but you know that, you know that saying, like, that I contain multitudes.
I feel like I, I, I have modeled so many different personalities, just, like, created models of them, and, and, and done such amazing, like, basically, personalities that are rendered to the same sort of, um, you know, resolution, and even higher than my own, than, you know, my own self-construct, my own understanding of myself.
And I think it helps to, like, when you model so many different, you know, other people's minds, you're modeling, you, throughout your life, you're modeling other people's minds, right?
And the complexity, the complexity, the complexity of the understanding that you have, uh, um, of other people, um, and being able to predict their minds and, and know who they are.
That, um, that, um, that really, um, uh, that lets you get to, um, you know, but in any case, like, I had a weird, I had an unusual experience.
Like, a mind-altering experience, like, a mind-altering experience, it probably altered my mind for the long term.
Probably altered the way I think forever.
Um, and it involved, you know, light and sound machine, isochronic beats, um, and, or, actually, I'm not sure, well, isochronic beats and, and, and, and alternately, uh, brain, uh, binaural beats.
Lots of binaural beats, um, lots of meditation with, um, different programs, uh, different light and sound machines without EEG, um, just, you know, audio-based only brainwave entrainment.
I did, I did a lot of that.
Um, and having, like, all sorts of, like, the, there's the, um, I had a transcranial direct-to-current, uh, stimulation machine.
I had, um, a, um, that was, I bought from Focus, FOC.us, and I had, uh, a, uh, TACS transcranial, uh, so it's a, has it, what is it, TACS is, um, oh, shoot, I can't believe I'm getting off the top of my head, but, um, but, um, but, um, but yeah, so TACS is another electrical simulation device,
and that you, in this, in this case, uh, I clipped, uh, something to each of my ears, um, an electrode was basically clipped to each of my ears, and then that sent, that sent a, uh, a signal across, uh, to, uh, to, uh, to apparently, like, basically stimulate the, the center of, of my brain between the two ears, I guess, is, hypothesis is how that works.
It's, it's electrical stimulation that runs straight through you, between your ears, um, and, um, let's see, and then we have, um, yeah, oh, nootropics.
Lots of nootropics, uh, that I've had over the years that have also, um, you know, like, so you take a nootropics, right, and, and, you know, they, maybe they're doing something that excites your brain, maybe, uh, or supports your memory function, um, and these nootropics are, uh, interfacing with the, um,
um, with the oscillations of, of your mind in, in a, in a way that is, you know, they're, what they're, with the hundred-year effect of, you know, a person taking nootropics isn't, isn't, isn't, isn't, isn't well-known yet.
I, I, I guess people are, you know, I guess, I, I guess everyone in the world is a guinea pig with, depending, depending on the, um, in, in some, in some ways, because there's, there are not, um, we're lacking in, like, it would be great if everyone in the world was participating in scientific studies.
If we had, like, mass-scale scientific studies, and we asked everyone in the world to participate in these studies, um, and, you know, like, you know, like, the idea is, like, well, what if robots take over our jobs, what can, what can we, what can the people do?
Well, the people can do science work, there's lots of science work that needs to be done, you know, there's, there's, um, if we get robots to take over the, all the, all the current human jobs, there's a lot of things that we don't have enough people for, that we need more people for, and, um, sure, at some point, like, we'll have robots that can do that, too, but, but the, but the, um, but you can, but there's, it's, like, right now, it seems like
there's an, there's an infinite supply of work and a limited supply of people who want to do it, uh, and a limited, and a limited supply of people total, and so imagine that there's so many workers, unlimited workers, that we, um, that we basically run out of work, and so that means that, like, um, in a long enough timeline,
we eventually run out of work, because we have so many workers, we're able to do everything, and everyone in a human being could, could help with science, you know, or, you know, with art, the, the way people could collaborate with, you know, with machines, to do, like, to accomplish next generation beats of, um,
beautiful architecture, um, or, maybe, you know, people could make spaceships, and colonize little planets, and expand out into space, and, um, you know, maybe it would be, like,
like, like, never mind, I was gonna mention some science fiction TV show, but it's, that'd be too much humor, um, but yeah, like, my, like, this, um,
I, um, I, I, I favor the idea that my brain resulted for the better, however, I mean, I feel like, um, like, I really became a machine,
in terms of my ability to, um, to read books, and consume information, and identify high-level patterns, um, to, basically, to, to scale,
uh, to be able to scale, uh, to be able to scale between high-level and low-level patterns, um, really easily, and to be able to, like, compare,
like, there's, you might find an isomorphic pattern in, in, in one domain of science, and be able to identify an isomorphic, a matching isomorphic pattern
in another domain of science, right, when, uh, when, um, you know, what John Carmack refers to is, like, when you're,
when you're reading a book about, uh, rockets, about how rockets are made, or, and, and suddenly, um, a concept
from, uh, how gunpowder works, like, helps you to imagine a new rocket design that might be a lot more efficient,
and, like, and, like, yeah, so John Carmack has, it, has described experiences like that, where you'll read an,
an idea in a, an idea in a, a book that's unrelated to the topic that you're reading, but you'll, you're able
to pull out, like, an information configuration that's sort of, like, substrate invariant, and that now
it works, you know, now we can go from, you know, take the lessons of how rocket, how rockets work, and,
and make better guns, or vice versa, make, uh, use the lessons of how guns work to make better rockets,
but, um, yeah, so it's, it is interesting to sort of, like, you know, I'm arguing, basically, that, that,
um, that patterns are not just invariant temporally, invariant spatially, but they're invariant,
uh, in scale, because of this magnification of, of patterns, and, uh, this, uh, it's the magnification,
but it's also, like, you could think of it as, um, divergence, like, when it goes from the neuron
level to the, to the screen of the oscillation level, that's a divergence, and then each of
the neurons that, that is, um, part of that oscillation is, uh, that's, that's, it's firing
in that oscillation, in that oscillation is, sort of, um, participating in the, the collective
group activity of, of, uh, sort of representing that pattern, because, um, they are, they were
all firing at the same time, but because that pattern, the pattern of incoming signals just
sort of, like, stoked a disruption to their normal, uh, cycle. So now, now, they are, they're,
uh, the, the really comfortable, sort of, um, synchronization that they all had has become
disrupted with decoherency patterns, because a new, because, because the differences, um, of
the action potential, and of the subsequent inhibited set, um, you know, it's not just
action potential, but it's also, like, either an acceleration message, because it, it causes
more, more sodium channels to open, or it's, it's like, hey, go faster, more sodium channels
open, or hey, go slower, more, more potassium channel, and more potassium channels open with
that synapse. And that, um, that causes decoherence, because now, like, we, it's like, you had
the whole group's oscillating together, and their response, um, gives, like, a bunch of
them, uh, a bunch of them now get excited, right? And a bunch of them now get depressed,
right? So now, their surface is responding to the, to the print. It's like the, it's like
the surface of the oscillation, is now has negative edges, and it has positive edges. The, the negative
edges are, are the inhibitions, and the positive edges are, are the excitations. And that canvas
is now, it's, it's, it's, it's, uh, a decoherence pattern has been pressed into it from the action
potential. That, and it's basically scaling up the action potentials, uh, to a larger scale that
that is now something that, um, you know, that, that, that, that, that is like, it's like reversing
the, um, that's rendering, it's like rendering a piece of an image from outside your body,
right? Because that, because the image comes to your eye, and, um, it, it, you know, the dendrite
has receptors, right? So the dendrite is going to receive signals on its receptors. And at that
point, the, the, the, the signals are going through a convergence point. They're, the, the, the, the,
the synapses of the receiving, uh, of each of the dendrites is converging, and the dendrite's only
going to fire if, if the, it's getting enough data, but it's only going to get data from the
synapses that are active. And so the synapses that are active define the pattern that it's
incapable of seeing at that moment in time, right? And they're only, and the, they're not just,
they're not just active, but they're also active in terms of their, of their, uh, the, the temporal
interval of the synapse. You'd have to have, like, um, two, you'd have to have, like, um,
a coincidence firing, uh, uh, event. Uh, they'd have to, like, um, you know, the signals would have
to arrive within milliseconds of each other. So I'm not exactly sure that, but they have to arrive
within milliseconds of each other because otherwise the, um, the membrane of the dendrite is, is
leaky. So it's like, um, so the pattern can arrive all at once or it can arrive at different times,
right? So different parts of the pattern can, um, can come in at different times. So it's, in that
sense, it's, it's synapse invariant in terms of, like, the, the, the pattern that's been learned to
synapse invariant. And sometimes, like, a partial pattern, uh, uh, may trigger the neuron to fire.
It's like, if it's seen, so it's missing, like, part of the pattern, it's able to recognize it
because there's enough, it's received enough information. And if you, I guess if you go with
the sparse distributed, uh, representation idea, I guess you only need a, uh, like, maybe two,
you only need maybe two, two points, two synapses, uh, to fire within three milliseconds in order
to create a, like, uh, a coincidence pattern. Um, at the minimum, you'd need, you'd probably need to
because, because, um, because that, because a phase is going to be, um, a phase change is a change in
the, uh, is like a, it's like, it's, it's, it's, it's increasing or decreasing, right? Um, but you
probably need, you're going to need at least two synapses to fire because that means that there
is a coincidence happening that, um, is going to, uh, plot that, that might, a coincidence happening
that, uh, that might have enough scale to cause the, uh, action potential event. Whereas, like,
if you had just one synapse fire, you would think that, you know, that that's not going to be enough
to cause the, the, the threshold to fire because that means the threshold is set at one and, um,
right, right. And there's, there's basically no point to the threshold at that point. There'd be
no point to there being a synapse at all. It might as well be like, um, just, it might as well just
be like, uh, a, an electric synapse then, right? If there's, if the threshold is one and it's reached
literally every time, no matter what. So it's just, it's just like, I think you need to have at least
two at a minimum. And then, and then maybe, um, you know, like that's, it's, it's weird to think,
but that, that might be, um, you know, cause, cause I don't know. I don't know. Cause I guess it
could be just one synapse and then one more firing from the same synapse. Like, cause, cause, cause
the charge of sodium ions, um, if you only, if you only, let's see the different thing. Yeah. It's
really, like, it's really interesting to sort of speculate about that because, yeah, cause,
cause even with the.
