=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0114y Neurons Potassium Differences
First recorded: 2021-10-20T21:03:23.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/26b95ae5-51a1-4e15-9f3d-cfaeb4f27650
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
There's a really good reason why human beings, um, like, I know, like, if you, if you go from being, like, obese, like, extremely obese, to being very fit, you will, what happens for a fact, it's not, you notice it, but what happens for a fact, and you, like, it's hard to believe, of course, but you feel like literally everyone on earth treats you differently.
Now, because, uh, because of the weight difference, like, if you, if you're obese for long enough, and all of a sudden you're really, really fit, the way everyone on earth treats you is literally different, like, and there's, there's an electromagnetic reason for that, uh, actually, and it's that, basically, people are oscillators, basically, they're, we're,
our reactions to one another are literally oscillations, right? Literally, uh, we are oscillating, uh, in reaction to the information that we perceive.
And, um, novel information has, uh, greater impact than, than less interesting information. So, so if, so if, so if, so if it looks like a large trend of people over time are getting fat and you see a skinny person, that's novel information.
Whoa. Whoa. I don't see skinny people that often. So you, like, or something, I, like, I don't know what it is. Maybe it's my, maybe it's my, my clothing, right?
But it's still clothing on a skinny, like, it's like, it's still, like, you know, 10 years of, of being obese, and then you're, like, really fit.
Like, like, like, like, then a year later, you're, like, really fit. Like, really fit. And there's, like, a dramatic difference in how, in how literally, it's, it's not that, it's not that, that the differences are that, uh, like, sometimes differences are big and sometimes differences are small.
But there is a difference. Even if it's a small difference. Even if it's a subtle difference. There's some tiny difference in how people, um, react to you.
And that you notice in an overwhelming way because it's, like, it's done repetitively. Like, all of a sudden, like, you, like, you go from, like, people avoid, like, everywhere you go, people are avoiding your, your eyes.
Right? When you're obese. Like, women are, like, looking down at their phones. Guys are, like, you know, just looking at whatever. It's just, like, everyone is avoiding you.
Or they cross the street because they're, like, they're feeling some negative energy from your body mass. Right? Feels negative to them.
So they, like, avoid you because you're, like, you know, 400 pounds or 350 pounds or whatever.
And, and then, and then, and then maybe you start to, like, you know, like, hey, like, you know, you start to guilt trip people.
Like, you're sending out a guilty energy, guilting, you should feel guilty because you're, like, ignoring me.
Why are you discriminating against me? Right?
Right? And so some people, like, like, when I, and I noticed that when I'm, like, when I'm skinny now is, is now it's, like, the, the much larger number of people, percentage-wise, pay attention to me.
Men and women both will acknowledge me either with a look or a smile or a nod.
Like, usually women might smile and usually men might nod and sometimes it's the other way around.
And, but there's, but there is almost none of that when I, when I was 315 pounds or, or 350 pounds.
There's nobody nodding at me, nobody smiling at me, nobody looking directly at my face.
Um, and there's just a much greater, now, some people, it's like, you know, you knew them from before.
And you know them now, and, um, they, like, they try not to act like anything's different for them.
But, um, at the same time, like, you notice that you're, all of a sudden you're, you're getting a huge spike in your social media views everywhere.
Right? Because, because you are, like, electromagnetically as an oscillator, you're sending out more of, um,
um, more of a, a, a spike, more of a, like, um, more of, like, a high gamma frequency.
Right?
If there's more novel information happening, it's a high gamma frequency spike.
And that sets the pace, like, the decay, the decay rate of that spike is going to set the pace of the, um, uh, of all the, uh, oscillators that it, it interacts with.
Like, like, because it's going to, it's basically, it's going to set the pace because it's basically bumping up all of their, um, their voltages a little bit.
And, um, so that's going to result in basically, um, increased chances of coincident firing.
Like, you'll have, like, um, like, you'll have a whole row of neurons that, uh, go off just because that one neuron went off.
Just because they were close to firing.
And then you'll have another row of neurons that will, um, uh, like, they, they might now, the, the next row might go off based upon what the first row did.
So it's like a reaction row, like the first one caused, it caused the next row to fire and the next row, um, affected, affected another row.
Like, it's like, and so it's like, and so the neurons go through these, um, the neural circuits in a cortical column would go through, um,
um, like, like, sequences of, of, uh, of oscillatory firing.
So, like, um, it's like a multi-stage temporal spatial firing event, um, in which you have, which you have, it's like,
so you have a row with individual neurons firing, and then that, when that row is done, um, in another row,
you're going to have another arrangement of neurons that are going to fire.
Because those were the ones that were close to threshold that also received signals from the, the row beneath it.
And, um, and so the complexity of the patterns that are being generated, as you can imagine, uh, are quite intense.
But it's like, just imagine that, um, you're, you're filling up a computer screen one pixel at a time,
and then one line of the screen at a time, and this is how it actually is done.
And then, uh, the second line, and then the third line, and then the fourth line.
And then, when you get to the bottom, after you've filled in all the lines, you start over at the top again
for the next frame of, of, uh, the image on your monitor.
And it happens so fast that you, and it seems like, like, um, this smooth experience.
You don't notice the, the lines being created one at a time.
Um, and, um, and that's sort of, like, what I'm suggesting here, is that we have, we have a sort of, like, um,
you have a sort of, like, monitor, basically.
The, the, um, the neurons effectively function like LEDs in a monitor.
Right?
Why would you need a monitor?
But, uh, but it's, it's just that, like, um, you know, so, so, so, different kinds of patterns
can be displayed there.
So, basically, it's taking the input, can be created, I'm sorry, created there.
So, it doesn't, it doesn't necessarily, that, it doesn't mean that it necessarily displayed there,
but it's created there.
So, so, so, we're taking this pattern, okay,
uh, that consists of input and output, input and output for many different synapses.
Uh, the ones that were activated and the ones that were present.
Uh, the two features combining to sort of connect short-term memory with long-term memory.
And, um, so, I mean, it, it turns out that the, um, the, um, the synapses are going to
change the action potential because they're going to, um, primarily because of the, of the
changes to the, um, potassium, uh, channels.
So, when the potassium, if, if you have more potassium channels open, um, then the, the,
the potassium moves faster out of the cell body and that, um, could either inhibit the
cell or it could, uh, repolarize the cell faster.
So, effectively, like, um, potassium helps shut down the action potential.
So, the sodium opens up the action potential and the potassium sort of closes the action potential.
And the idea is that the length of the action potential, which can vary based upon the potassium
channels, um, changes the, um, the, the multi-vesicle release pattern.
So, you have between zero, you have four, four, uh, potential trans, uh, communication
bits with microvesicle release.
You have, you can either release zero vesicles, one vesicle, two vesicles, or three vesicles.
And, um, uh, the, a vesicle, for example, for, you know, a vesicle might contain 2,000, uh,
atoms of, uh, dopamine.
I mean, 2,000, yeah, 2,000 neurotransmitters that, like, dopamine or something.
I didn't mean to say atoms.
These are, these are, but dopamine, yeah.
Um, and, um, dopamine is, uh, is going to, so, I mean, I, I, you know, it's, it's going
to travel across the synaptic cleft.
And, um, the, the electromagnetic and acoustic vibrations, uh, that are, that are also traveling
across the synaptic cleft, uh, might, um, might, um, might aid in, in the, in the, um, in pushing
the, the, the, the, uh, uh, the vesicle out.
But also, there's, um, there's the, there's the, um, there's the action of, um, the, uh, electrical
potential, um, sort of pulling the, the, the, pulling the, the vesicles across.
I'm not, I, I, I need to get more details on how that works.
And, um, the, uh, the pressure, so the pressure, um, of the exit terminal, the fluids in the,
in the exit terminal, um, I guess are increasing at that point.
So when the vesicle, when the vesicle, and the vesicle is going to land on, on a, if
it lands on, um, on a, uh, synapse on the other side, that's going to add some, some
mechanical force and, uh, some mechanical force that leads to electrical stimulation.
Um, and the, uh, the channel will, uh, allow sodium ions or, uh, in or potassium ions
stands out.
And I think that, so I think that if you get, like, a really large action potential, you're
gonna, I think that it's gonna, um, inhibit the next cell.
Like, it's downstream cells.
I think it's gonna inhibit its downstream cells because it's gonna send out a, um, like,
like a number three, three microvesicles all at once.
And that means that all the, that, that the likelihood that all the potassium is opened
up at once, all the potassium channels are opened up at once, is, is basically gonna inhibit
the cell, um, in that scenario.
And so, um, so, like, when a, when a neuron spikes really hard, it's gonna, like a phasic
spike, it's gonna open up all the potassium channels because it's, with the microvesicle,
with a, with a multi-microvesicle release.
Um, so basically, like, launching it's three vesicles, maybe 6,000 dopamine neurons.
And, um, so now, like, all the neurons are, like, that it's connected to are essentially
storing, um, a magnified representation of that firing event.
So they've magnified a signal.
And if you imagine that there's a group of neurons that's inherited, but let's say that,
that, that, that, you know, neurons in each layer is a couple in each layer that fire.
And then in the next layer is a couple in each layer that fire.
Because it's like, I'm going with the sparse distributed representation theory, you know,
presented by, that it was, uh, presented so well by Jeff Hawking and the folks at Nementha
and many papers in, in, uh, two books.
And, uh, so I subscribed to this sparse distributed representation idea.
That, that, that, that is what the brain is doing.
It appears to be correct.
Um, and, um, but you have, yeah, so you have a couple in, you have some neurons,
like a small number of neurons are going to fire in one layer.
And then, uh, at some point, a small number of neurons in another layer are going to fire
because they were close to threshold and that the firing at the, in the previous layer
were just enough to push those over the threshold, their threshold.
And then, um, that might, uh, then cause some other group of neurons somewhere to start firing.
And, um, but imagine that at each stage, you see, these neurons are firing in, uh, in terms
of, uh, as they move up the hierarchy of, of the cortical column, the neurons are firing
in sequences.
And some of the sequences, you might see like a diagonal line or, um, you might, you might
be able to draw lines between them that like have this sort of zigzagging, um, almost
vector, like graphical quality.
Right?
Cause it's like, it's going from, like the firing goes from like one point and then over to another
point.
It's not necessarily, um, gonna go to the, the, um, in the direction that, that, that might
be expected.
A signal could, could, um, even travel in the opposite direction.
Um, so what exactly happens is, uh, is dependent, is dependent on the particulars of the physics
of that situation and the mechanical realities of that particular space.
Um, but it's interesting to think that, uh, the human mind carries the, the building blocks
of a huge number of past memories that are, um, that human ancestors learned.
And, um, by what I mean by that is that, um, as, as the, um, over time, human beings have
grown increasingly, um, greater, um, I, okay, so I am presuming as this is true, but I would
presume that over time, human beings have evolved to have an increasingly, um, diverse,
uh, increasingly genetically diverse, um, arrangement of, of, uh, of neurons and, uh, of, you know,
with different, like, electroacoustical properties and, and, um, and mechanical, uh, properties
and different, like, you know, you can see an example of this, I guess, if you look at how
human dendrites are much longer than mouse dendrites, right?
Um, that, that example is like, well, there's a lot of different configuration possibilities
that can be navigated with natural selection.
Like, maybe some humans, like, evolved, um, some neurotransmitters that allowed them to, um,
be better at, you know, some kind of task, or maybe they're adapted to, um, certain kinds
of foods that are local through their region of the world, where they, uh, where their people
were for 10,000 years or something.
And, um, you know, so tiny, like, genetic differences in our, in our synapses might sort of like, um,
but also in our, in our proteins everywhere, these, um, the proteins that make up, you know,
the differences that made it possible, the building blocks of, of some, some lesson that made it
possible for our DNA, or our DNA ancestors who survived to survive, the mutation that led
to their survival became sort of like, um, embedded in our proteins, in shapes, our protein shapes.
And so we have, over time, I think, um, um, have developed increasing, uh, quantities of
novel new protein, uh, shapes and protein types.
And so I expect that the, the, there's an incredible amount of, um, uh, diversity in terms
of the, uh, mechanical, acoustic, acoustical properties of different neurons in different parts
of the brain.
I mean, I mean, an interesting thing that, there was this, there was this article about
the pyramids, um, the pyramid of, um, Giza having electromagnetic properties that they were
going to use to make batteries or something.
And they're, they're saying that, um, uh, the electromagnetic waves bounce off of these, the, the
surfaces of the tetrahedron, of the pyramid.
And that focuses the, that focuses some electromagnetic energy in the center of the pyramid because
of the, because of how the panels are arranged, like a satellite, right?
Like, and then, um, uh, you know, satellite has this like sort of, um, upside down dome
that sort of, um, and so like, imagine, yes, like a dome, like imagine like a dome has, because
of its reflect, because of its, um, reflecting shape, if a dome was designed to reflect, um,
electromagnetism, you know, maybe some very, uh, some, some, some, some kind of material that
you make a dome out of, right?
And then, um, so what would it be like then to, to like deliberately try to concentrate
electromagnetism with, with a dome that reflected, um, energy very well?
Um, that's, uh, that's an interesting, that's an interesting, um, thought.
I don't know, but like, imagine that, so like your brain, your skull has, um, is kind of like
a dome, you know, like your eyeball, like imagine your, your, your brain and your eye
are, are fractals of one another, like your, I mean, your, your skull, like your skull is,
it is kind of like a, um, um, it's, it's almost, it's, it's almost a dome, it's, uh, uh, you
know, it's round, it encompasses your, it goes around your brain and protects it from every
direction.
It's, it's, um, it's, it's kind of a ball with holes for your eyes and your, and then,
you know, there's, there's your jaw and there's holes where your nose goes.
And, uh, anyway, so we have, so we have this, um, so we have this dome in our head and, um,
it's weird to like, well, so what, so if our brain on some level is producing, um, um, an
electromagnetic phase field, and, and I, I think I can make the argument that space-time
itself is technically a phase field.
Um, and I'm arguing that basically this phase field is that, that particles are phases, particles
are frequencies, and they're, they're frequencies between distances, um, yeah, um, and they,
and they're, they're frequencies between distances, um, and that, and, and that is why, um, they
either have, they're, they either have a momentum or they have a position, um, but sort of like
not at the same time, sort of the uncertainty, sort of like another viewpoint on the uncertainty
principle, is that they, they're also, is that, that is, um, space oscillating between,
um, being somewhere and going somewhere, and it can't, and it can't land on, on, uh, either
one that long, it has to keep oscillating back and forth, and, um, but, um, anyway.
