=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0110y Synapses Neuron Oscillator
First recorded: 2021-10-21T04:27:14.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/0ac38d1c-cc4b-4030-b95a-97c9a0c9d43f
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So, it's really weird that we have a situation where you have to look at the synaptic connections work like, okay, so imagine that what's happening is that the synaptic connections that are inhibited, right?
So, let's say that you have, let's say that basically, the synaptic connections that a neuron has in its dendrite represent the potential points where new signals can come from, okay?
And so, the reason that the dendrite is able to store a pattern is because the connections that are, that exist or don't exist, shape part of the pattern, shape the dimensional scope, the potential dimensional scope of the pattern.
Like it's, it's the, um, and that is then, uh, imprinted by, uh, the fractional presence of the, um, synapses that are not inhibited from, not in an inhibitory, not in an inhibited state.
Like, or they're in a tonic state, or they're in a phasic state, one of two phasic states, I guess.
I don't know if they have two phasic states.
But, um, but they're, but they're not, uh, firing, and they're, actually, I don't know yet, I don't know.
So, they're not firing, they're not, um, firing a lot.
But, um, maybe, maybe they don't have, I don't know if they have a tonic state.
I mean, it could be, I, you know, maybe they just have, like, firing or not firing state.
I don't know.
But, um, so that's something I'll look up.
But the idea is that, so, like, I just had this picture in my mind that each synapse, uh, represents, um, a, uh, it could either represent a different neuron or, um, you know, I guess it, I guess there could be multiple synapses between two neurons, I guess, I don't know.
Uh, but, um, but in, in at least one sense, it represents, uh, different neurons.
So, like, each synapse represents different neurons, right?
And, um, but it also represents the pattern.
Uh, it represents the spatial pattern.
Like, which, it's like a line recognition, right, system.
And, um, the way it can be a line recognition system is that, um, as it changes, it becomes more receptive to some patterns and less receptive to other patterns.
So, for example, it's, if you have three, um, if you have three, uh, let's say it's connected to six neurons, but, but with six synapses.
Now, let's say that three of the synapses are inhibited from firing, so they can't fire.
But the, but the neurons connected, uh, via those synapses, they fire, and now they can't send a signal, uh, so they're, so that's it, so that pattern is effectively ignored, okay?
So, in that sense, uh, a single neuron, uh, through its, its, its, uh, the number of synapses and the status of its synapses, uh, a single neuron can, uh, basically be configured to only, uh,
uh, fire when it, uh, uh, receives certain patterns and the rest of the time it's not going to fire because those patterns that it's not configured to detect, uh, basically they can't get through.
Because those, uh, or they can't get through or they can't get, um, or they can only get partially through, right?
Because maybe, like, only part of the pattern can make it through because, because, uh, you know, maybe one of the inhibited, uh, synapses is now, um, firing, now in a fire, in a ready state again.
So maybe at a later point, signals can get through, and so, uh, or a partial pattern can get through, and, um, but basically that establishes the dendrite as a pattern recognition machine.
Holy chick.
So the dendrite can recognize patterns, and as the, uh, synapses change, the patterns that the dendrite recognizes, uh, change.
So the, the, the dendrite can look for, um, uh, patterns that are basically defined, uh, in terms of, uh, space, and because of, like, which, which, uh, nodes lit up, and patterns that are, um, defined in time.
And, and, and, uh, and, uh, the patterns are also defined by amplitude, um, because the, um, the low-frequency patterns have higher amplitude.
That's a, that's a, like, it's like a dimensional characteristic, right?
Right, but that's, um, um, the amplitude is important for, um, for setting, uh, for setting oscillations, right?
For neurons that are, uh, that sort of sets the timing, that creates neurons that, that, that, um, can oscillate together.
That's part of the mechanism, part, one of the attractors of the mechanism of group, of group oscillations.
Um, and then, so when you have group oscillations, um, effectively, um, the group, uh, can recognize patterns.
Because now the patterns are, um, you know, when a neuron fires, like, it spreads to a whole selection, a whole area, right?
And, um, and, um, and that means that, uh, you have, basically, what you, what you choose to focus on is driven by memory configurations.
And, um, and, um, so you're not going to see, you're not going to see patterns, um, if, if your, uh, if your receptive field isn't, um, open to them.
And, um, and you might see partial patterns.
But thankfully, the, uh, invariant learning, ah, I'm so annoyed.
Apparently, the invariant, uh, learning is, uh, it's going to make it possible for, for, like, if you have one, so one, so if one, uh, synapse is inhibited,
um, then, um, that might send more sig, more signal to another synapse.
So, like, imagine it like this, okay?
Um, if, if you have two channels and they go to two cows, right, if both synapses are open and, um, uh, you know, in the, we're talking about the exit terminal.
So, one neuron fires, if both synapses are open, then half, then half the signal is divided between those two exit terminals.
Okay?
But if one of the exit terminals is blocked or basically inhibited, then all of the signals have to go to, um, to the synapse that is open.
And so that, so now that synapse that is open is going to be supercharged.
Uh, and, there's going to be, like, and so the dendritic, um, yeah, so that is, it's curious because, here's the thing, is, is, I was going to try to make an argument
that maybe the, the, the exit terminal would send a bigger signal down the, the one, the, down the one synapse if the other synapse was blocked.
But, but here's the thing, it's like, so what's being sent across the synaptic cleft is, um, is, uh, is a neurotransmitter that's triggering the opening of a channel
so that, um, more, uh, signals can, uh, pass through.
So, the idea is that if a, um, is that maybe the same number of receptors would, would, would land everywhere.
And that's, like, that's sort of, like, uh, and whether they open up a, um, a synapse or not, uh, could be, um, irrelevant.
Like, in terms of, uh, the, uh, the channel, the channel either opens or, or doesn't, but it's not going to open more or open longer, uh, if another channel doesn't open.
It's not like, it's, it may not be, like, a pressure, like, a pressurized system, uh, in terms, in, in that sense.
Because, and that's, like, the key to the fact that, uh, um, it's key to the fact that, uh, it's not a pressurized system, but it's, like, um, yeah.
So, I'm just imagining, like, like, this sort of, like, either pushed or vacuumed, the neurotransmitters even pushed or vacuumed to the other side
and they just collect to the other side for, for a minute, they activate whatever they touch and then it comes straight back.
And that there's no, like, variation in synaptic channel activity that's, that's based upon, um, there being too many, uh, there being, like,
if, if, if you have, if you have two multivesicle, if, if you have a multivesicle release, uh, in, in, that is exactly the same as the next multivesicle release,
then, basically, the distribution of neurotransmitters, um, on the, uh, post-synaptic membrane is, is going to be, uh, topographically similar.
And so, there's no, there's no pressure that is, uh, being created, uh, for those synapses to, to, um, to move somewhere because, ultimately,
I mean, for those neurotransmitters to move somewhere because, ultimately, those neurotransmitters are, are either going to be, uh,
uh, they're basically going to either be pulled back into the transmitting neuron during the reset cycle,
reset phase of the cycle, um, or, or they're, or they're going to be, um, swept away, um, uh, in, uh, in another process.
But, um, but they wouldn't, yeah, so, the only way that the receptor is going to, the receptor side is going to, um, be receiving, uh, going to be recognizing patterns.
So, see, so, now, now I have, there's a good explanation for how the dendrite is recognizing patterns,
patterns, and then, um, how the dendrite is transmitting patterns is basically, uh, phases that can be, like, a phase with zero,
an inhibitor, an inhibitor neuron is going to send the phase that has zero, um, uh, uh, vesicles.
But, because the rest of the, like, like, uh, neural circuit, because that neuron and every other neuron in, in that, uh, receptive field,
uh, is going to, um, is going to, uh, be expecting a tonically firing, uh, neuron, which is, like, uh, which is one multivecisable release.
Then, we have a situation where they're going, where the, that neuron and every other neuron in the receptive field,
they're, it's going to notice if there's, if there's, one of the oscillating neurons is inhibited.
And it's going to notice because it, because, um, that, because of the principles of how oscillators work, basically.
Um, and, so we have to, so we have to, goddammit.
Now, imagine that the branch, that, um, the, um, the oscillations of reality from small-scale atoms to large-scale galaxies,
that they can be thought of as having a fractal form like a tree, where the branches, um, because of the nature of oscillators to attract one another,
the branches, uh, would form, like, chains where you'd have, like, uh, smaller spheres orbiting larger spheres.
And, and smaller objects orbiting larger objects.
So you could have moons orbiting planets, or planets orbiting stars, or stars orbiting galaxies.
Or, you know, uh, uh, uh, uh, cloud, uh, you could have, you know, the horizon of a, of a black hole and everything falling into that horizon.
Uh, sort of orbiting the black hole on its way in.
I don't know, actually, I'm not sure, I'm not clear if that is, like, considered an orbit.
If the horizon of the black hole is in orbit or not, right?
Can you, can you, is it possible to orbit a black hole?
Is that what the horizon is doing?
Is it orbiting?
That's an interesting idea.
Um, but the idea is, like, okay, so, like, if you imagine, if you imagine, you know, if you go from this order of,
you have a big oscillator followed by a smaller oscillator, followed by a smaller oscillator,
and then you look at human beings, there's also, can, also fractals,
oscillating, you know, fractals, because it goes down to human beings, and then, uh,
and then, you know, our neural circuits, neurons,
and then the, the, the, uh, the, uh, the charged, uh, the ions, charged atoms, the ions,
uh, the, um, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the electrons, you know?
Um, we can, we, we, we, the, describing the electron as, uh, as an attractor in an oscillator,
sort of, or just one point of an, one point in an oscillating, uh, in, in the, in the fabric
of space-time oscillating.
That's how, I like to imagine that electrons are, are, um, the, the literal fabric of space-time
oscillating between, um, uh, having a position and having a velocity, or something like that.
Uh, uh, there, uh, it's, in, in some way the, the, uh, idea is that, uh, space-time is, is, uh, can't,
uh, is, it's, it's, the fundamental isolation is, is, um, undecidability, or, yeah, like, undecidability,
or, um, it just can't decide what state it wants to be in, like, do I exist or do I not exist,
sort, sort of thing.
Like, because the universe can't decide it, it oscillates between existing and non-existing,
in a sense, uh, and that oscillation, uh, creates an oscillation cascade, which creates
space-time, because the, each of the, because from the first oscillate, the, from the first
oscillation to the multiplication of oscillations, the fractalization of space-time is growing,
and, and, so space-time appears to expand, uh, but it's expanding relative to the oscillators.
But since human beings are oscillators, you know, like trees, like, if you look at a tree,
the tree over time has this, um, the trunk grows one bit at a, at a time, and then the
branches grow, and then, it, there is a, um, but it's not like, it's not like, it's not
like, half the tree grows at a time, and then the other half grows.
The temporal progression is this sort of, like, oscillation where all, the whole, uh, bottom
surface area of the tree, uh, on a certain axis, um, is growing simultaneously.
So the plant is, like, growing up out of the ground, and, but it has a diameter.
So, in the, and the diameter is basically a cylinder that starts branching off into different
branches later on, once the stem has, has grown.
And, um, but, but each, uh, like, each interval of growth, maybe it's a day-long interval, is
like, um, it's like a circle grew on the tree.
Like, as it grows, it's like, it's like, we're adding another circle every day.
And the circle is, like, turns into a cone, and the cone is the branch, right?
So the tree, there's, there's, you know, a circle is like, I'm just, like, imagining,
like, an oscillator is like a circle, in a sense, and many oscillators being aligned is like
a tree branch, right?
And so we go from, you know, basically big stars to people, and the progression of the
evolution of the universe, but what we're seeing is that we're, that we're all part of the branches
of a great oscillatory tree.
Um, and, at, and at the same time, that, so basically that, what it means, what that means
though, is that as a human being, you are like the branch of a tree.
You're a branch of the tree of the, the, the oscillating fractal universe, right?
That you're the end points of the universe, and so it's like saying that where consciousness
begins, um, it's, it's like saying that, it's, it's like saying that, um, only in the sense
that you, uh, um, that you are the universe, you're not separate from it, you're just like
a branch of the universe, in that sense, the universe is conscious, and your brain represents,
uh, um, the conscious dissipative system, that is the universe.
So in that sense, you are the universe, in effect.
Um, and in the same sense, um, you've authored your own personal reality.
You're, you're, you're, the reflection of your mind has, and, and that, and that means
that your reflection essentially, um, wrote, wrote, uh, the narrative that defines reality
for you, but that is basically accomplished through, uh, the, um, the, the movement of
physical things, physics-based systems, movement of, of ions, electrical charges, um, magnetic,
uh, so, I, so I, I, I think that there's, there could be room to argue for, uh, that the action
potential is, uh, longitudinal, uh, electromagnetic wave, possibly both electric and electric,
um, um, longitudinal wave and the magnetic longitudinal wave, like, in, in both, with, with effects
in both, um, uh, uh, graphs, in both fields, right?
So maybe the neuron is simultaneously affecting the electric field and the magnetic field with
the single action potential, uh, and at the same time, it's creating, um, a lot, it's creating
a, um, a longitudinal, uh, soliton wave with its, um, uh, soliton sound wave, uh, with, with its,
uh, uh, uh, that, with its, uh, but the soliton sound wave, like, reverberates down into the
microtubule, um, so that you can have, uh, an acoustical memory system in addition to the, um, uh, the memory, and it, and it, it, it basically, the, the, the acoustical, the acoustical memory, um,
uh, system might allow for, um, uh, uh, like, really super long-term, uh, memories, uh, that are stored acoustically in the microtubule
and retrieved acoustically, and, um, what they would do is, uh, because the microtubule, uh, sits
inside the synapse, what they would do is, uh, potentially, um, deactivate a synapse, uh, inhibit it,
schedule it to, um, uh, be ready to fire, like, there's different possible, um, ways that the, uh, microtubule
can possibly also, uh, uh, uh, store magnetic patterns, magnetic longitudinal waves, and, um, you
know, who knows about what a microtubule can do with an electric, uh, magnetic wave, I don't
know, with an electric, electromagnet, an electric, uh, longitudinal wave, but, um, but that would
be interesting if, uh, if, uh, if all three could be, uh, stored in a microtubule for long-distance
memories, and then the idea is that the, um, the, uh, the typical, like, method of long-term
memory is still going to be, um, based, basically, uh, you know, whether, um, uh, it's the, it's
the, it's the patterns that appear, um, to the dendrite, that allow a dendrite to respond
to only specific patterns, right, so that's where long-term memory is going to be stored,
and short-term memory is, like, you know, um, some of the synapses become temporarily
inhibited, right, and that's, that's where you can have, like, short-term memory, right,
you can, you can remember something, um, in a neural circuit until, uh, um, you know,
for a certain interval, for a certain time interval, and then, um, uh, yeah, and so that
allows, but, anyway, but there are, but there are, but there are, but the idea is that there's
going to be multiple neurons that can, basically, they can get to, um, a point where they are,
multiple neurons can get to a point where, shit.
