=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0113y Neuron Vector Wave
First recorded: 2021-10-20T21:31:08.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/cd7af043-6ae4-42f8-9132-da83644f11a0
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Whereas Christoph Koch argued in one of his books that computers as they exist today, the von Neumann architecture, the CPU with the DPU combination,
that that by itself could not reproduce human consciousness the way consciousness is.
It would take a different kind of machine.
And so one of the arguments that I'm making in this book is that we can, in fact, create human-like consciousness in software, self-aware software.
And so the key thing that, the key physics-based operations of the brain, that part can be stimulated.
And you can, you know, if you consider the neuron as a multimodal sensor, you can, you could go the route of, you know, building neuromorphic chips
that mimic the functions that mimic the functions of neurons accurately enough to get to that result faster, faster than a von Neumann architecture of a CPU central processing unit.
If you had, if you, if you, if you designed your artificial neurons in just the right way, you could, you could get there faster in terms of like your potential performance per watt, maybe.
Um, because with the human brain, you have a lot of, um, uh, uh, parallelism.
You know, the GPU, the GPU is, is a much more, is, is much, is a lot more parallel in terms of its processing than the CPU, the graphics processing unit,
or the, um, or the TPU, the tensor processing, uh, unit.
But the, um, you know, which I, which I don't understand the TPU, uh, um, in great detail, but I, but I've heard that, um, uh, it's really good at doing matrix math,
which is, um, sort of a key operation for, uh, for deep learning, uh, when, especially when the output of a node is a vector, right?
So, the, uh, having a, having a, sort of, uh, GPU or TPU that's just sort of dedicated to matrix math might, uh, help accelerate, uh, calculating the vectors of nodes in a deep learning model.
So, um, you know, I guess in a sense, I, I could describe, uh, the neuron as calculating a vector, um, and tensor space.
Uh, so tensor space is, like, I'm saying, and I mean, like, four, four-dimensional space, right?
But, like, um, I say that, I say that for multiple reasons.
One is that, uh, you know, the, the, the action, the axon, uh, the axon, uh, you know, it is going to, it goes from, it goes from one point from the soma to the, to the, uh, to the, um, to the x terminal.
And that point splits up, you know, it, it gets distributed to multiple, uh, neurons through the, via the exit terminal.
But, but before it gets to the x terminal, before it gets split up, there is at least one point, a, um, a line that, that is the, um, the axon itself that the action potential travels on.
And that is creating, um, a vector in phase space, an electromagnetic vector in phase space.
It's also creating an, uh, an acoustic, uh, an acoustical, acoustical, mechanical vibration in, in, in, in the same space.
Because the, when the action potential fires, the membrane physically expands, uh, the membrane of a neuron expands like a balloon.
It changes, it's structure expands like a balloon during the action potential event.
And then it, and then as the action potential passes through each node of Ranvir, uh, it's, it's, um, the area, the, um, the shape of the neuron, uh, of the neuron's membrane is, is changing at each step.
And, uh, and, uh, so, you know, that's interesting, right?
That you have, you have this, um, and, and, and the, and the neurons, uh, so that, so we have an argument for, um, the neuron's electric event creating, uh, like a literal vector, which is the orientation of the axon.
Right?
It's like, hey, this vector happened again.
Occurred again.
Um, and, and, and, uh, you know, that's, that's going to affect the rest of the brain.
Uh, so it's interesting that that, that, that, um, you know, I mean, potentially it'll create a wave that, um, you know, the rest of the brain can pinpoint collectively.
It's like, where did you, where did that thought occur?
Oh, that was the origin of that thought.
That, that was the one.
Um, but, but, but then there's, so the, the neuron has a dipole, a magnetic dipole, that has an, that has an orientation.
And every time the action potential event fires, the orientation of that magnetic dipole changes.
So that's another vector.
So you have, you have a vector, uh, that's the axon firing.
But then you have, that, and that's always, that's always the same when it fires.
Um, but then you have another vector that changes every time.
Um, and maybe that provides, uh, a contrast between the two vectors.
Like maybe there's a, I mean, it's, it's, I don't, right, there's, there's, there's, because one is like an electric, electric vector.
And the other one's a mag, like a magnetic dipole vector.
Um, and the magnetic dipole is changing every time the neuron fires.
And, um, that, uh, is going to, um, that is, that is also going to affect the electromagnetic place field.
Uh, of how, of how, of, you know, when we're talking about the, what is the importance of the electromagnetic place field?
Well, uh, you have throughout the brain, you know, brain activity that is, um, that is to great, to a great extent dependent upon, uh, uh, a step where, um, ionic, uh, ions, uh, ionic charges are building up
because of the movement of, of, um, sodium, potassium, uh, calcium, and, uh, and chloride.
And, um, the, the, uh, the charge, the charge buildup, the, of the increasing and decreasing charges,
um, they are, uh, they're all, like, uh, these are electromagnetic charges.
Um, these are electromagnetic events, right?
These are electromagnetic states.
Um, and the place field is electromagnetism.
So, if the, if the, if a magnetic dipole at the neuron scale changes,
that affects the, um, the, uh, arrangement of, of, um, that affects the total arrangement of,
of, um, of, um, charges in the brain.
So, that could be, like, the tipping point between, um, you know, too much ionic charge being in one,
in, in one part of the brain that, that triggers, uh, some threshold firing for, for some neurons.
It triggers a shift in your brain's thinking, right?
Right? So, the orientation of that, uh, magnetic dipole in a neuron could, could shift your thinking,
uh, in terms of, in terms of how it affects the rest of the electromagnetic field of your brain.
Right? And so, it actually could, it could represent your current,
it could, part of your current thinking.
Um, and, uh, but so could, um, the other modalities of signals, right?
They, the, uh, the acoustic waves, and the, um, the, the ionic charge, charges built up.
Um, like, uh, the mechanical wave, the, the, now the mechanical wave, I think, becomes an acoustic wave,
uh, in the synapse.
Right? Because it's, um, I mean, mechanical waves can, um, shoot, I, I don't know if, if it's, maybe it's,
it's, I want to say, it's like a mechanical wave and an acoustical wave at the same time.
But specifically, it's, um, it's an information-carrying wave where it carries a phase.
It's a very specific phase frequency.
Right? It's, it's, um, that, that stays consistent across its journey.
Um, because, because, because, because, and I, I say it probably stays consistent across its journey,
and, and that would be a soliton wave, um, likely, likely it's a soliton wave.
Um, so, be, but the importance of it being consistent across its journey is that
the, the, the brain needs to, um, communicate, uh, in terms of faithless.
Um, but yeah.
So, like, you know, I, I'm personally interested to find out if, uh, the microtubule is, uh,
one of the mechanisms of, of memory.
Uh, I would say the, on the, like, maybe perhaps the acoustic or soliton wave mechanism of memory.
But I'm also interested to find out if, you know, because the, because the microtubule, because,
you know, um, the idea that we could have, you know, several different, different, um,
modalities for memory simultaneously, um, is, that, I mean, that, that, I guess,
potentially provides for great, great redundancy in the detection of information
if you have this sort of, like, um, trifecta of synergy that correlates information across
physical domains simultaneously.
I mean, that seems like that's a very robust solution that defies, um, your brain being confused,
uh, by one domain or another, right?
It, that would, that, that would, um, sort of, like, clarify uncertainties, uh, that, that level
of robustness where you have, like, basically like a trinity of signals.
That's interesting.
