=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0127y Potassium Brain Neurons
First recorded: 2021-10-15T04:07:00.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/02f33134-730c-4f17-b26e-e977023e3f9d
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So you looked at memory formation. So, obviously when long-term potentiation happens, there's a new protein synthesis event that happens, and there's a new dendritic spine that appears or disappears.
Um, and the, um, the idea is that, uh, so short-term memory would be like having, um, having, uh, potassium channels or, or sodium channels, um, like opening or closing, um,
or connecting or disconnecting. Um, and so that's, the short-term memory is those, the opening and closing and the connecting and disconnecting of those, of those channels.
Um, but then a long-term, um, but then a long-term, a long-term memory is like, and to see, see what that can mean is like, basically like, uh, a neuron, uh, adjacent neurons can, um, let's see, what is the mechanism for a neuron to, well, okay, well, no, I mean, in one sense you,
right, so neurons, so neurons can open or close the receptors on other neurons, right, because you send, when you're sending neurotransmitters, um, you're either doing something that is going to excite or inhibit some neurotransmitter on the other side.
Um, huh, so that's interesting, because I'm like, yeah, how does that, how does that work exactly?
Um, yeah, so that is an area I need to explore a little bit more, like, yeah, what is the mechanism for how, um, a, uh, one neuron can open or close a neurotransmitter?
Sure, because see, okay, see, look, the idea is that, look, you open the sodium channels first, and you open the potassium channels second, so that, you know, the, um, the sodium channels have a chance to trigger the action potential on the axon, uh, from the soma, but, um, but if, if that, and if that happens,
then what, what happens at the same time is, you know, the potassium starts, um, leaving the cell through, and, uh, that causes a repolarization, uh, of this, of the cell, so it, like, resets the cell so it could fire again.
Um, and, uh, so, so sodium, so sodium is, is, is a positively charged, and potassium is positively charged, but compared to the sodium, there is a negative gradient in the potassium, just by comparison, like, the sodium is more positive, and the potassium is less positive.
Um, and, uh, so, uh, so, if there's too much positive in the cell, um, then, uh, the, the action potential gets triggered, but the, when the potassium leaves the cell through the opening of neurotransmitters, then, um, the, uh, the potassium, uh, sorry, the, the, the, the
gradient of the inside of the cell is going to shift back to negative instead of being positive. Um, and, so, the action potential is brought to an end by the calcium, okay?
But the thing is, like, if some of the synapses are, uh, you know, if they're full of, let's say that there's, um, uh, they can get clogged, they can be stopped, they can be inhibited, they can be dismantled, right?
And every time you alter the number of available, um, uh, available, um, potassium channels and available sodium channels, you're, you're altering the, the shape of the action potential.
Um, and, um, you might be, you, I mean, you know, I kind of am, like, I wonder if there's a neuron that has multiple kinds of neurotransmitters and different action potential configurations are sort of, um, possible, but, um, but, so, here's the thing, is the, the action potential,
potential has a particular shape, like a tone, that the, let's just say that the, it creates a phase change in the phase space, that, um, the phase space is the combination of the, uh, the inside and outside cell electrogradients and the oscillator, um,
the, the phase space created by the neural oscillators. So it creates a, so it creates, so it creates, so you can have a really unique sounding tone in terms of, like, how many, um, receptors, uh, how many sodium receptors, how many calcium receptors are active, how many potassium receptors are active, how many potassium receptors are active, because it's going to change, like, the amplitude and frequency of the firing,
of the end, of the end, the phase, and the phase, uh, characteristics. Well, the phase characteristics are going to be, like, related to amplitude and frequency, um, which are in, which are inverted,
in, in, in terms of, like, their proportions. Uh, so, greater amplitude means less frequency, greater frequency means less amplitude, right? Um, and this happens at multiple scales, so you have, like, this multiple
scale, uh, temporal spatial phase, uh, space, uh, space, uh, that the brain creates, uh, and the brain detects, because, uh, because, uh, because, uh, because the,
because the field is, is, um, um, in part made up of, uh, made, uh, uh, defined by the, um, by the ionic gradient,
in addition to the, uh, uh, the, uh, the tonic oscillations of neural circuits and cortical columns,
and, uh, uh, the, uh, the phasic, the phasic firing of, of, um, um, interrupts the tonic firing with novel patterns,
that the whole brain can see, because it's, because it's, uh, it's, um, it's, um, it's interlinked.
Uh, and, you know, in, in, uh, in, uh, in graph theory, we know that, uh, thanks to graph theory,
we know that the sort of randomized, uh, connections, uh, between, uh, neurons, uh, means there's a very short,
there's very, there's very short jumps from any, uh, from any two areas of the brain.
There's only a few jumps away over some interneurons down a cortical column.
Um, one cell can reach across the brain to another cell to coordinate, uh, oscillatory patterns
that are, uh, very distant from one another in terms of, uh, brain space.
But the brain can, uh, like, I can, uh, you know, for example, you know, this, like, very distant patterns
are, like, um, just, you know, some of the obvious examples is, are, are that, you know, you have, um,
what comes into your eyes, uh, is sent to both of the hemispheres of your brain at the same time.
Each eye sends something to each of the hemispheres of your brain, and each ear, right, is, is something that,
you, you know, you're considering information that combines, uh, you're combining visual information
with audio, audible information, or tactile information.
The feeling of your feet on the ground as you're walking, or your butt as you're sitting,
or your, your voice as you're talking, or your hands as you're holding something, or sound of one hand clapping.
Like, when you're connecting modalities, just thinking about, um, the sight of your, of your, of your hands,
the sound of your hands, the, uh, touch, the feel of your hands.
And when you're crisscrossing modalities, your temporal, your, your, your, your, uh,
your, your, your temporal parietal junction is lighting up,
because you've got so much multisensory brain activity linked together that you are paying attention,
you're conscious of, of, of some content that's engaging multiple brain areas.
And that's sort of like, uh, multiple brain areas over time.
So there's, there are, um, uh, over, there are overlapping, uh, oscillations taking place across, uh,
a synchronized brain activity taking place across vast distances.
And the, and these activities are not necessarily, like, actively connected.
It's like you have one, it's like you have the, you have, uh, a brain wave, uh, playing out in stages,
as it, as it, uh, it travels across your brain.
Because it's, it's not, it's not that it's traveling, it's just that you have, your brain areas are each taking their turn
to play back their part in the sequence of your brain activity.
So there's a ripple as like, uh, as if a brain wave was traveling,
but it's like pixels are lighting up sequentially on a screen.
We're going to have four red pixels.
That's like you have one brain section light up, then another.
There's a temporal neural circuit.
It happens.
A sequence of brain activations in a certain area by the, by the lab of, of Jack Gallant,
which points to the semantic mapping of your temporal spatial reality in actual,
and distributed in actual spatial regions as measured by the blood flow detected with functional MRI
at the lab of Jack Gallant in Berkeley.
And so we do have basically like, you know, I can't like, I think, you know, I wonder, I think as a journalist,
I'm changing the configuration of a high level object to integrate existing ideas into a new framework.
I think that if you examine the configuration, it's rearranging things.
I just read a lot of things and, and my brain organized a pattern.
But, but the things that I'm referencing, you can read about.
They were done by scientists.
Each step of it, I can point to papers that,
to talk about these things that illuminate the analogies of what they're,
or the, sorry, the descriptions of the methods of the various operations.
So,
So,
So,
So,
So,
