=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0125y Neurons Muscles Barbell
First recorded: 2021-10-15T21:09:05.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/1f9b4ec0-c5c5-44dd-92c8-c1581d8fa9f3
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So, I think we're all in this, I think you could argue that any person is in the sort of situation where the people they interacted with in the past have responded to them with varying degrees of happiness.
Some of them significantly less happy than others, and some of them a lot more happy than others about the past interactions.
That's not to sort of point fingers at who did what first, and what was their causality, and their responsibility.
You know, often times people get, people become, in the course of a conversation, where there's back and forth conversation, you're becoming an oscillator with that other person.
And if things are, if the result is a positive outcome, both persons probably contributed to that positive outcome.
And if it's a less positive outcome, if it's not as positive, both persons probably contributed to that less than, less positive outcome.
And, okay, and, uh, so, in some cases, you know, the, the, the, uh, communications with people that you met in your past are strengthened.
In some cases, they're decreased, or weakened, or broken off.
And this is sort of like a fractal of what happens at the, at the, at the, with your, with your neurons on the micro level.
It's a fractal because, yeah, so the, the, the neurons are connected by synapses, and sometimes the connections grow, and sometimes they dissipate.
And, um, the, the, the sort of like analogy, the, the big picture analogy is that the human social network, um, and the, the social network of neurons, they have some fract, interesting fractal parallels that, that, that can be considered for potential insights.
And, um, one of those insights might be that people that, uh, we, uh, are not talking to now, that we were talking to in the past, um, they still exist in a shared network.
But, but, it's not, it's not like this network has to, uh, it, it's not that this network has to become diseased or cancerous.
Maybe there was some sort of event or lesion that drove people apart or drove the neurons apart.
And maybe it was traumatic for both.
I don't know.
But the point is that, um, that, if you think of it as a human being, it's kind of like, uh, kind of like a neuron.
As a functional fractal, uh, a functional, uh, fractal, uh, isomorphism of a neuron in terms of, uh, resonating with, with, uh, patterns, transmitting patterns, receiving patterns, and storing patterns to replay patterns.
Um, there, there's a, you know, the fractal of a neuron is the fractal of a neural circuit.
It's the fractal of a cortical column.
It's the fractal of a neural oscillator.
It's the fractal of your whole brain.
It's the fractal of a person in the context of, of their social relationships.
Um, and, uh, so sometimes, you know, we have, I want to say we have, we have breaks with other people, or we have unions with other people.
And these breaks in unions can be profound, significant, transformational.
They can cause changes to the people involved, and, um, you know, when, there can be, so, there could be, so, there could be, so, there could be, so, there could be, uh, high-level configuration reasons for why, uh, two neurons don't, uh, communicate with one another anymore.
It has nothing to do with what either neuron actually did, but it comes from a high-level, sort of, like, interference pattern.
Um, you can see that in the case that, uh, neural oscillators, um, will, uh, if, if you're looking at EEG, at the frequency, at the frequency bands of alpha, theta, delta, gamma,
uh, you have these horizontal bands, sometimes you'll see these, uh, vertical bands intersecting the horizontal bands across the spectrum.
And, uh, uh, and, uh, that's, that is higher-level dipole activity exerting a sort of top-down influence on, uh, it's a higher-level configuration, uh, structure exerting top-down influence on, on, uh, lower-level configuration structures.
And, uh, uh, the reverse is also true, because the system is sort of tonically cycling neurons at a, uh, flow rate that can, um, that has the effect of, hang on,
that allow, that, that, this, this, um, this hyper-readiness state can allow, uh, the, um, the individual perturbations, perturbations, uh, of small-scale firing
to exert an influence on, uh, a larger-scale assembly, um, in terms of being that tipping point thing that, that shifts the entire assembly from one state to another.
Uh, but the tipping point, so the tipping point idea is sort of, like, accomplished because tonic oscillations give you, uh,
uh, a bridge, which means you do not necessarily, which means you do not need, uh, so small oscillations have a hand.
It's like weight displacement, uh, machines at the gym.
The weight displacement machine means that you can do pull-ups, uh, if you don't have enough muscle to lift your weight,
as long as the machine is helping you to lift yourself.
The machine is giving you, like, okay, so, like, instead, so, it's like, instead of, instead of needing, like, um, you know, a real,
let's say that, let's just say that, like, in my case, I, I tend to oscillate around 200 pounds, uh,
uh, for most of the, for most of, uh, the, uh, past, uh, several, maybe the past six months,
been oscillating around 200 pounds, and, um, there's a certain amount of muscle that it takes to do a pull-up
if you're 200 pounds, and, and, and, in many cases, that's more muscle, and, in, in many cases, that, that's, in my case, uh,
that's more muscle than I have.
But there's a weight displacement machine, a pull-up machine, that says, okay, well, you can use your smaller muscles
that are not, that can lift, I don't know, 100 pounds, or 150 pounds, I'm not sure exactly what it is.
If you can do, if you can lift a smaller amount, we will support you and displace the rest of your weight.
It's sort of like the, you know, like, when you exercise in the water, right, after, uh, a broken,
maybe someone had a broken arm, like I had a broken arm this year.
And exercising in the water removes a lot of weight, which allows you to perform, um, movements with muscles
that have either been, uh, destroyed through injury, injury, or atrophied, atrophied from inactivity during the recovery time.
Like, so that you can, uh, grow those muscles with less weight.
It's like, okay, so, like, it's like, how could a small, like, imagine, like, a small event is like a, uh,
I mean, like a, um, a single neuron firing.
It's like, trying to pick up a 30-pound barbell with an arm that has a, has an amount of muscle
that's going to be really, uh, comfortable with lifting a 10-pound barbell, but not anything heavier, right?
So, trying to lift a 30-pound barbell without, when you can only really, like, comfortably lift a 10-pound barbell,
um, that's going to be hard to do.
Um, and what you do is you, is you just, you do more with a 10-pound barbell, and you, you grow some muscle,
take some protein, or, you know, increase your protein content, and, and, you know, after you work out your, your muscle
with a 10-pound barbell, and then you move to a 12-pound barbell, or 15-pound barbell, or 20-pound, or 25,
in that order, preferably, so that your, as your muscle grows, you're taking on slightly higher amounts of,
slightly greater amounts of weight.
Now, uh, there are, you know, in order for your neurons to cause your muscles to fire,
they need to send a lot more than a single neuron transmission.
It's not like a blinking LED is, is going to trigger your, is going to, is going to be enough energy to cause your muscles to fire.
So, we have, you know, for the muscles, we have these, um, uh, gap junctions,
which are, um, you know, the electrical synapses, which are, basically, every, every chemical,
uh, neuron starts out as a, as a, as a gap junction neuron.
It starts out as an electrical synapse before transitioning to being, in some cases, becoming a chemical synapse.
And the chemical synapse is sort of like, the, the electrical synapse is sort of, um,
um, a pre-requisite structural building block to a chemical synapse.
So, the electrical synapse, there's, there, there was, at one point, an electrical synapse inside every chemical synapse.
And whether that's still active or inactive, um, is, is, uh, is a different question.
But if you want the ability for signals to quickly amass power to move muscles, there is a way for that.
And those, those are excitatory network oscillators that, um, that allow one small neuronal event
to trigger a large cascade of excited neurons.
And that produces, through the, um, process of LTD, long-term, long-term depression,
that produces, um, group oscillatory activity
that, uh, that is going to provide the amount of energy necessary
for, um, uh, for coordinated, uh, motor function.
But that's different from, uh, what you,
it's different from what you might need for making sensory distinctions.
So, there's, what's useful for making sensory distinctions, uh, are inhibitory, um, neurons
that can really divide up patterns in novel ways.
And, um, uh, chemical synapses that can break down, basically they can break down
and distribute the phase information of a single neuron
in a, um, in a way that allows a network oscillator
to learn, uh, high-level, uh, uh, invariant patterns.
Multi-dimensional, multi-scale patterns.
