=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0134y Consciousness Causality Metaphors
First recorded: 2021-10-13T17:11:09.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/498585cd-7573-49ac-83d2-4dffc88c44f2
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Consilience reminds me a lot of, um, Consilience is a book, uh, a new way, it's, the book is, I'm sorry, the book is How to Understand Everything, Consilience, A New Way to See the World, by Tom Beekbein.
And, um, there's, there are some, there are some parts of the book that I enjoyed, but a lot that I disagree with.
And, um.
Um, so, I, you know, for example, for example, like, like, when he was describing, um, you know, how the ear worked, and the vestibular system, it was very, that was, I really, I really enjoyed that, but it's like, um, you know, I, it, it, it quickly became, you know, like, like, uh, just sort of like, uh, it flies over how, how neuron mechanisms work.
Um, which is, like, like, a huge invasion technique.
So he's, so here he's presenting sort of like, he's like, I'm just gonna, like, gloss over how, how neurons actually are involved in the creation of consciousness, and just pretend that that is a problem someone else will solve.
But I'll go ahead and explain to you what consciousness is, based upon, you know, my model of consciousness.
So he's, so he's explaining his model of consciousness, but it doesn't go down into, you know, the, the detail, the actual details of neurons.
But he sort of like, hand waves away, he says, well, you know, uh, like, the reason, the reason, basically, that, that consciousness is not computation, what his, and his, his view appears to be, um, that, um, that, because you can, he, he says, he, basically, he's saying that consciousness exists in melodies,
and it exists in metaphors, and it, it's melodies inside metaphors, or metaphors inside melodies, or, or something.
And that's too, like, a computer can't do that.
That's what he's, it's like, you, he's like, you might take, um, you might take, uh, you know, you might say that there are, um, politics is a dogfight.
And that makes sense, like, they might make sense to you, say, well, how is it like a dogfight?
Okay, and you think, okay, but then you say, politics is like a plant.
And, and this is from his book, this, this example.
Um, well, uh, now that doesn't make sense.
How does politics like a plant?
The dogfight, the dogfight analogy made more sense, because, yeah, we know that one, right?
And, and, and, so, the, here we have these comparisons of metaphors, okay, that, that he, he, you know, we want to, um, you know, in different modalities.
So he's saying that, you know, like, um, you know, the meaning of a smell as a, as a temple spatial pattern, uh, it, uh, it, it's, it, what, what it means to us is sort of related to some, sort of related to, uh, different, different, uh, like the metaphor that is, is, is related to other ideas.
Like, we're relating some set of ideas in one metaphor to, uh, a set of ideas in another.
And, but this doesn't, like, this is very, um, it's very much like, I think, closer to realm of psychology and, like, theories of the mind.
And, and definitely, like, a more outside-in, uh, sort of model of consciousness that isn't based, it's, it's more like, so outside-in is, like, more like, um, you know, we don't know how it works, but, but this is what we intuit is happening based upon our day-to-day observations and, and our observations talking to patients in the lab.
Um, and, um, so it's not, like, it, it just, it reminds me strongly, you know, and then, then, then, and then pretty soon he starts referring to the symphony, the, um, orchestra, the, um, orchestra, the orchestra of the brain, or the orchestra of the mind.
Uh, which sounds a lot like, um, his constant references to the orchestra of the brain is, is the magic sauce that solves everything.
It's, it's not, it's not, it's not completely wrong to say that, um, but, like, everything's encoded in melodies, and that's, that's, that's a very, like, I would say that the modalities that he seems to be most comfortable with appear to be auditory modalities.
You know, from talking about the ear, to, like, comparing, you know, like, the, the essential building blocks of consciousness as melodies, like, he, we see, we see things in terms of melodies, and, and how is, what he sort of, like, described, like, you know, um, um, um, so it's a very, like, this is for, this book is gonna definitely resonate acoustically with people who are auditorily inclined.
You should get the audio book version of it, no, um, but I, but in terms of, like, yeah, so the, the idea of the orchestra of the mind is not a new idea, um, there was a book about EEG that was called Symphony of the Mind, that's worth reading when I read.
Uh, his book most closely reminds me of a book by Nicholas Humphries called Soul Dust, which described, sort of, like, um, the sym, the, the symphony-like activity of the mind is, is being the, the symphony of the soul.
Um, if I remember correctly, I have to go and look that up, but, I need to go back and review those books, make sure I have, have them correct, but, yeah, that, I will do that.
So, I mean, they're suggesting that the mothers, in, in his book, there's some science, there's some research conclusions that the mother's interaction with the infant is, sort of, like, setting up and establishing the turn-taking of, of social behavior, of speaking and listening.
Um, but, I think that's just a consequence of, of, of how neurons operate in terms of taking turns, uh, transmitting and receiving.
Like, they oscillate between being, receiving neurons, being inhibiting neurons, or being, you know, broadcasting, also, uh, broadcasting, or in other words, transmitting, uh, neurons.
And, um, so they have, so there's, but it's not, I mean, that, it's actually more complicated than that.
There's actually, so there's, like, a tonic firing phase, which is, like, the standard expectation, like, of being, like, in the, that's when neurons are firing together in large groups and oscillators, and it's, like, a slower, you know, frequency firing pattern.
And, during the day, you might have, like, um, the power band of your alpha oscillating waves might be, um, greatest during the day.
And, you know, maybe you have a cup of coffee, and they get, and they go, your beta becomes the dominant power band.
Uh, if you're doing, you know, I, I don't know exactly, I, I'm, um, you know, there are, there are times when, when your gamma might be, be, um, let me walk that back for a second.
Um, what I'm thinking is that, um, the, the power band, the, the tonic frequency power band, it kind of goes up to gamma.
Let's say it goes up to high beta, okay?
Um, not, not, and not up to gamma.
Not into gamma, but up to, but not into gamma.
So let's say it gets everything from delta, theta, alpha, beta.
And, uh, and I, I'm not a hundred percent sure if this is, um, the way it is, but, um, I definitely will find, find out for sure in, in second edition.
Um, and, um, or basically there will be, like, if you, like, I'll update, like, I'll do, this is the first, this is the first print.
Um, but if you order the first print, when I, when I, um, update the book, I will, um, make the second, uh, the second edition available to you for free.
If you bought the first book, um, so you just, um, like, I just have, like, the receipt of purchase will be an NFT, right?
That's your receipt of purchase.
And then I'll send you the first edition, and then I'll send you, uh, the second edition.
So the first edition, I expect to have a lot of errors, and then I'm going to work out what the neuronal mechanisms are, like, after, after dialogue and feedback.
And I'll, and I'll note, you know, I'll, I'll record, I'll record my collaborations.
So basically I'll figure, figure them out and record my collaborations with neuroscientists.
In fact, that's actually the way I want to do it, is I'll record them as part of the Neuralase podcast.
So the follow-up, the follow-up to the book would be to sort of try to improve the, the, the book by asking real neuroscientists, um, in recorded broadcast conversations to help me improve various parts of my theory.
Um, and so that way I have basically a series that's about improving how, um, consciousness, um, actually works, which goes far beyond what, uh, Tom Beakbane's book is proposing.
But one of the things I wanted to note is that, is that everything that he describes in terms of, you know, the, the, um, the brain, uh, being able to, um, make analogies in one sensory domain and compare them to analogies in another sensory domain, um, that concept was sort of, was also sort of, like, exemplified in Gold, Escher, and Bach, right?
When, when, when you can make, when, when, when someone can make, make, uh, an analogy of a, of a self-referential loop in mathematics and with, uh, with an auditory feedback loop or a visual feedback loop, um, and then sort of, like, describe, like, a learning feedback loop for a human being, right?
It's like, it's like, you're, you're able to, um, hear, uh, your own voice.
And so your, so the result of your brain activity is going, um, out of your ears, I'm sorry, out of your mouth, out of your vocal cords, and into your ears again.
So you're creating a feedback loop that, that extends the activity of your brain outside of itself and back into itself.
So there is a connection, uh, there's a, there's a, in a, in a sense, it's like your brain is making a wireless connection, uh, between two areas of your brain through your vocal patterns.
Same thing happens when you look at yourself in the mirror, uh, your movements in the mirror, uh, actually cause you to, um, actually cause you to, um, change and evolve, uh, your, I'm sorry, I, I misspoke.
Uh, your movements in the mirror cause you to develop your perception of yourself and to grow your perception of yourself and to grow your awareness of yourself.
This is the sound of your voice does that now you could really just, um, focus on making simple sounds and dial in on that as a meditation and like look in the mirror and focus on simple sounds and make like a humming sound or a mantra that you could repeat a long mantra and just focus really on yourself.
And, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um
movements. So you could do that. There's other ways to do neurofeedback by capturing some
representation of your brain activity with EEG, for example, or F-nearest, functional
infrared spectroscopy. There's, you know, I am dreaming of a day in which we can, you know, sort of
use electrical impedance tomography to create like a live 3D model of the molecular structure
of your head in 3D that you can look at and watch in real time as changes happen and then you make
correlations between the changes you're seeing and the thoughts and feelings you're having. So you
basically, by seeing this, are going to decode yourself or decode the patterns reminiscent of
your own thoughts from that 3D model, from that live updating 3D model of a molecular structure
representing what electrical impedance tomography has done in combination with artificial intelligence
to render your, to render some representation of your, of your, of your brain. I think that could
be really fascinating and that's one of the, that's one of the brain computer interfaces that I, that I
want to build. Okay, let's go back to quantum physics, right? So, so apparently quantum particles
leap, leap, leap forward from spot to spot like the pixels in a television because no spot in space
can be smaller than a plink second, right? Although this is, this is the prevailing theory but
it's a theory that nothing, nothing in space can be smaller than a plink second so particles are like the pixels
in a volumetric television screen and they're teleporting from one location to another or it's as if the grids,
it's as if phases in the grid are, um, are changing. Which is interesting because I'm basically, I'm essentially
proposing that that's how the mind works is that it's basically producing and tracking, uh, phase changes,
in a, in a, in a four-dimensional grid. And, um, and that the universe that it's tracking
in a four-dimensional grid in phase changes also exists as phase changes. But is that, but how those phase
changes might be, uh, uh, tracked by the cosmos itself, um, is sort of like something that the folks
who, there's a group of folks who are considering that the physics of the universe itself might have
its own, uh, natural selection process. That could explain why physics is the way it is today. That
physics has basically evolved and developed just like biology has evolved and developed. And, and,
and, you know, that, that's interesting because biology is the, is the, is an example of physics
evolving. It's a physical system that's evolving, right? So biology is an example of a physical system
evolving. But the idea is that the same rules, um, apply at even the quantum scale. That the whole
system of the cosmos is evolving or developing new patterns over time because the likelihood of certain
pattern arrangements, um, uh, were enough to tilt the system in a particular direction. And so for
this time at this point in, in the perhaps infinite history of space time, that the, um, that the elementary
particles of, of space lined up to produce this. Perhaps, as perhaps it's, you know, what happens when you
combine infinite possibilities, uh, with infinite time.
Um, you eventually get this, this reality. Um, it implies that there's no, that there's no director,
but instead like a natural selector. And, um, you know, I guess the argument with the self is that
there is a, you know, we want to say, well, there's a director that's like a ghost
sort of, sort of, that can leave the body after you're done with it. I think that makes any sense.
But I'm saying like, okay, the director is actually a reactor
that's reacting. And, but the reaction is sort of self-coordinating, right? So it, it's reacting,
but the reacting, but the reacting results in self-coordination. So the system, the dissipative
system, that's consciousness, is a, uh, uh, four-dimensional phase tracking system that is
of, uh, uh, that is a mathematical, uh, vortex of quantum reality. It's like, it's like what I'm
saying is like, is like the brain is functionally a, um, a vortex of, is functionally a dissipative
system of the, inside the fabric of reality, um, at the, at the quantum scale and, um, yeah,
at the quantum scale. And so, yeah, so basically a conscious being represents, uh, the vortex
of quantum reality, or the world, or the whirlpool in the water, or the tornado in the air, right?
So the, so the air represent like the quantum potential field, and the potential field happens to
potentially create grid-like patterns, 3D grid patterns of, of planks, of, of plank scale spaces
that can change their phase to, um, create the appearance of four-dimensional patterns
that, um, can then exert, um, basically gravitational or, or electromagnetic forces
on one another, right? And, and I, and I wonder if gravity is not some, um, in some, some,
I want to say like, what if it's like, what, what if it is like macro scale causality? So, so going back
to Tom Beak Bane in Consilience, one of the reasons I disagree with him was he seems to think that, um,
bottom-up causality, causality, um, is the holy grail. And so this, that, the decision, you know, it's like,
for him, the observer doesn't really exist. The passive observer doesn't, well, no, I'm sorry,
for him, the passive observer doesn't have any power. The, the, the person is the
recipient of whatever the orchestra does. You're not the chooser. You're just, you have this character
that you imagine is doing different things, right? There's these scenarios, and he compares it to
basically like AI playing against itself when you're imagining what might happen if you do certain
things. But he compares it to like a, you know, like obviously the guy who's like, you can't compare
this to a, to a computer system compares the brain to AI, right? When it compares your imagination of,
of your future choices to AI modeling, uh, uh, future choices, right?
And, but basically that he thinks that, yeah, so you are thinking about different decisions that you
could take, like an AI fighting against AI, battling against AI, like you're making comparisons to see
which scenario is, has the best result, right? But ultimately that he thinks that you're like the,
you're a powerless observer, and then it's the bottom-up that is driving all the forces on top.
Like the quantum frequency range, like the quantum frequency range, driving all the, all the events at
the macroscopic range. But the thing is, it's not like causality is, uh, is, is, is required to happen
only at one scale or the other. It's not a question of whether it's, uh, uh, uh, top-down causality or
bottom-up causality in the brain. Uh, he, I understand where his points are coming from. He's
just not getting that much information. You're only getting little bits of information. Your brain
is filling in the pieces and creating the experience of the world based upon models that
it's learned. And the, what it's getting from your eyes is just triggering those existing models.
Like you're running the matrix simulation in your brain, and instead of interacting with reality at
the level of detail you think you're interacting with, you're just getting little fuzzy bits, little
fuzzy dots. That's what he, that's what he thinks. And, um, uh, you know, that, I think that leads him to,
to imagine that, yeah, so you're, so the cause, you know, the, that basically, like, at the root of it,
you know, you just imagine like that, um, spark, like a sparse dot field, like a particle field,
uh, where there's, there's nothing really solid, but there's lots of dots representing things,
maybe different colors or lines or edges, and your mind is through something like deep learning,
it's stitching it together, making those, those dots come together, right? So, um, you know,
that's all well and good, but that doesn't mean that, um, that all, all, all the, the, the,
the physics of causation in the brain are driven from, uh, from the bottom up, from low level
connections towards higher level connections, because there are, you know, there's, there,
there are things that, like, um, if you have atoms that are arranged in the formation of a basketball,
the behavior of the basketball will be different from, from the behavior of, of another pile of atoms
that is arranged in a different way. It could be a deflated basketball, right? So you have the atoms in
a basketball and the atoms in, like, uh, a basketball that's been punctured, so it has no,
has no air, right? It's a flat basketball, and the, one of them bounces and the other one doesn't,
but they both have the same number of atoms and the same types of atoms, right? It's just that the
configuration has changed, um, and the configuration only exists at the macroscopic level, but the
configuration at the macroscopic level has causality. It doesn't have, um, causality that is, uh, only
bottom-up driven or only top-down driven. It has causality at multiple scales simultaneously. So the
causality exists at all levels simultaneously. So you're going to have events that can only be triggered
by the, by the, by the configuration, by the 3D configuration, by the macroscopic large-scale 3D
configuration of lots of atoms. Those patterns at a high level have causality. So the observer isn't,
it's, it's not, it's, there's no such thing as a passive observer, in fact. So his idea of, like,
you have bottom-up causality, the observer's just observing, you're not really in control
of this, it's a movie, sit back and enjoy it, right? That's kind of like, it's kind of like his
attitude. And I couldn't, this, I, like, here's the thing. The idea of a passive observer,
that observer that has no control or is not engaged and making choices, that observer doesn't exist.
That's a version of you that doesn't exist. That's like saying, that's like, that doesn't exist. So
the thing that has no control doesn't exist. And what does exist, what I guess is not really you,
because you think you're the, you're the thing that's a passive observer with no action, is this,
is this live, real-time representation that exists across, and only exists across four dimensions.
Like, if you, in one second of time, you would not exist. In one second of time,
you would have no consciousness, right? I'm saying that you won't, this is only something,
that happens in four dimensions. Because, because, because that's, that is what,
that is what is quantified and communicating, and is the map that the organism is producing
in order to navigate, in order to navigate, the con-, the complex, uh, world, that is the ecosystem we inhabit.
You are a rich man, because, or whatever.
the human movement is quite a way.
It's wyいきlian 19 hanya two years for the company.
Our developer says that Have you been developed together and made that
