=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0145y Michael Graziano Consciousness Attention Observer
First recorded: 2021-10-11T03:17:32.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/b05673ce-0f9d-4d54-918e-1d054b8be409
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Yeah, so Michael Grazio thinks that consciousness might be like a module, that you add it, and then suddenly it can have a concept of self.
Um, I think that's, I think that's incorrect. I think that, um, that the self-concept, uh, can be learned like any other, like any visual, like a visual concept or an audio concept.
And to be able to have language and speak about yourself is something that a machine could do unconsciously.
The machine could, could construct a language dialogue that describes its own, um, that, that describes, um, you know, you can, you can, because it's, because, because the machine, because the human being, you have, you don't, you're not born with this representation of yourself.
You know, you know, at some point, you, you just, you, you just, you don't, you don't have language, and you have to learn language, and, but you see, and, but you have to figure out, you know, your eyes have to learn, like, you look at the book, Act of the Perception,
You know, you know, the story is that some people who lost their eyesight regained it, but, um, but they had no eyesight for such a long time that when they regained their eyesight, they didn't immediately understand what they were looking at.
And in some cases, they, um, what they, um, what they thought, what they thought were black holes, uh, what looked like, I'm sorry, what looked like crazy black holes, uh, later on their mind figured out that those crazy black holes were actually windows in another, in another building across the, the courtyard or something, or something like that.
And, um, and, um, so there was a sort of, like, relearning, uh, uh, visual learning, that over time, through the action and, um, curiosity of their own intention and attentional processes, um, they were curious about their incoming sensory inputs to their eyes, and they were, you know, continuing to look at those crazy black holes until they figured out that, that they were actually windows.
And they had rectangular shapes, and that they had borders, and that they were in the context of being parts of buildings, and this was a sort of, like, visual, conceptual buildup.
And, and I, I suppose that the same thing happens when someone's newborn, that, uh, they look, they may look around as if they understand what they're looking at, but there's no reason to think that they do.
Um, that, um, that, you know, that, you know, that the, the restoration of sight to someone who hasn't had sight for a long time, uh, sort of, like, paints a picture of what could be happening to newborns when they first, uh, come out of the womb, and they look around in the world.
It's, they, they, they, they are not, um, uh, able to, um, uh, make the kinds of distinctions that, that, uh, that adults can make.
You know, you see, you see, you see, well, their eyes can, can, um, can, um, can look, and you might project that they understand what they're looking at, but of course they can't, at that point there's no language, they can't say anything.
It's, it's, um, it's hard to say what, what, uh, uh, uh, what's going on in the, in the, in the, in the mind of the newborn, but, but let's just stick with the idea that, um, your eyes have to create visual models.
Your ears have to create auditory models, your audio, I'm sorry, your visual cortex and your audio cortex.
Your, your brain has to create models of each of your sensory representations, and, and, and at the same time of receiving the sensory inputs, it's also receiving motor inputs, and so it's creating a model of, of your own motor activity.
And that includes the sounds that you make, and, and, and, uh, the, um, you know, the audio cortex, helping to build a model of the sounds that you make.
Not just tracking your muscle movements, but correlating the sounds that you make with your muscle movements.
And your eyes are tracking how your, your body moves in, in, on the visual aspect, in the visual scene.
So you, you can feel your arm moving, you're moving your arm, you're seeing your arm, you're hearing your arm when you, when you, when you, uh, when your arm collides with something, or claps.
You make a clapping sound.
With one hand.
Uh, have you ever done that?
What, what exactly is that, does that sound like?
Um, okay, just listen for a second.
To, uh, to, uh, to your, to your, to your one hand, clapping.
Just listen to it.
And, and, um, yeah, so we have these, these, uh, models of the self.
And, and there's no, in principle, there is no reason why, uh, a robot can't make a model of itself in addition to making models of the rest of the world.
And, and, and I think that's what Michael Graziano is missing, is like, it's not like, it's not going to be like the, this, um, consciousness module.
You add it, so you, so you have these sensory modules and you have to add a consciousness module so that you're, so that you're, um, so that part of your brain is just modeling.
It's just now capable of modeling consciousness because it has this additional module.
Um, I'm going to veto that idea.
No, I'm just kidding.
I'm like, it's not that it's, it's not that it's definitely wrong.
It's just, I don't, it's just not an idea that I am in favor of.
Um, because I think of, yeah, it's not, it's not, um, I think I have to go back to the idea of you have observer, observer mechanisms.
You don't have a, a, a central observer, but you have observer mechanisms that correlate.
And so these, that's the OSC.
And, um, and yes, OSC is separate from, the, the attention mechanisms are going to be separate from, um, from, uh, the observer effect.
Right, right, because you have incoming streams of patterns, but they, but, me, so it might be that, it could be that, um, the TPJ represents some sort of peak in the, in the hierarchy of, of both, um, observers and attention.
It's like when, when observers and attention collide, maybe that's the peak of the hierarchy of the brain, in a sense.
Um, and I know, I know, and it sounds weird, right?
So you say, okay, well, obviously the incoming senses, the primary sensory cortices, which include the TPJ, right, include the location of the TPJ, those are lower in the hierarchy and the prefrontal cortex is above it.
Um, and, um, the argument is okay, but, but maybe the signals from the, uh, the prefrontal, because, because they're, you know, we want to say they're a lot more distant from the incoming senses.
But again, going back to graph networks, as applied to the networks of the brain, it could, it could be that, um, a lot of, that it could be that there's a lot of, um, it could, it could be that the, um, the, there's so much, um, interchange and traffic that the, the real peak of the brain isn't the frontal part.
Parietal lobes, but it's actually closer to the temporal parietal function, in terms of, like, uh, information flowing from the, um, the, the, the, the frontal parietal back to the, the TPJ.
Um, again, I don't know, but we have, uh, some coordinating, some activity coordination, uh, across the quapus callosum, which, uh, and we have, um,
you know, you know, there's a lot of connective, there's a lot of connective areas, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the thalamic bridges, and, uh, you know, Broca's and Werner's area.
There's a lot of spots where, um, where, um, where distally separated information seems to converge, you know, in, um, in, um, in a coordinated way.
Right? Right? Some areas seem to be more, um, like, you know, we have a, there's a lot of siloed, uh, cortical columns.
Right? And the cortical columns are, are, most of the connections are local.
And they're sort of, and they're sort of, and so therefore they're kind of in a silo.
But not, not completely.
And most of the connections that branch out from the cortical columns, you know, we're talking about, um, those are just in the upper layers.
It's, it's, uh, fifth or sixth layer where the pyramidal cells are now reaching from the, from the, from the peaks of the, of the, uh, siloed cortical columns to, to reach out and connect or network different cortical columns together.
They network, you know, with long interneurons, they connect different, um, regions of the brain together.
They form rich clubs and they form the default mode network and, and, uh, there's other, um, you know, anatomically, uh, described networks.
And, um, and so it, it seems that, well, so, you know, it, it, it could be that, you know, so it, it, it, it probably is the, the fact that the TPJ is one of, is at least one of the major crossroads for the convergence of,
of, of attentional patterns and, um, the high, and the higher, and the higher, more macroscopic levels of observation that are tracking patterns at a higher level.
So my hypothesis was that, you know, because we have basically this, with anesthesia, we have the impaired function of pyramidal cells.
And the pyramidal cells are, with, are linking together brain areas.
And so you have this lack of consciousness when brain areas are not linked together because the pyramidal cells are being inhibited.
Not inhibited, but disrupted from functioning.
So the brain is not linking together.
And, and there's a loss of consciousness function.
A patient under anesthesia could have some of their brain lighting up, but it's not global brain activity.
And, um, so that's what I think of.
And, and so the, so the idea that, like, somehow it's just, it's just, uh, a module in a temporal parietal junction that we could copy and put into a robot to the rest of the robot.
Now it has a conscious model, so it moves from its representation of what it's seeing, representation of what it's hearing, to its conscious model, and now it can think of a consciousness.
I mean, that is just, um, not really possible.
It's not impossible, but it's not possible.
I mean, it's, like, the reason I say that is because I think, yeah, you have to have a, uh, this, um,
um, you have to have, uh, large, large, uh, sequences, um, of multi-scale, uh, interrelated data across many different, uh, modalities in many different areas of the brain.
Um, um, collaborating in huge sequences to achieve something like a, like, um, what we would sense is a human level or animal level, uh, beingness.
And this is going to be, um, something that the computers will be able to do, uh, because it is, but it's not going to be like a module.
It's going to be, like, how the, because, because what you, because one of the key things is you have, is, if you have, is you have basically, like, this, this, um, bubble with a lot of bubbles inside it, just to oversimplify what it is.
You have, you know, cells are, like, they're, they're, they're, it's a bubble that, that, um, that is a 3D, that contains a 3D, um,
learning machine, that learns, and, and, learning, and, and, it's not just a learning machine, it's also a speaking, a speaker.
It's a learner and a speaker.
Or it's a, it's a listener and a drawer.
So it draws and it listens.
It's a observer and a transmitter.
It's a receiver and a transmitter, but it's, it's, it, it, it, it's, it feels.
It feels because they can create a, basically, a feeling, let's say, it's a, a feeling is a multimodal association.
Uh, so multimodal tracking and correlate, and multimodal correlation.
So if you could take, if you could take different kinds of data and you can track it, and you can feel it, and you can, you can detect a pattern.
You're basically, like, a feeling is a pattern that's being detected in a multi, it's a multi-dimensional pattern that's being detected.
It has, it has, it has, feelings have characteristics, patterns, it's a temple of spatial characteristics.
Like, if you rub your, if you, if you, if you rub your jean, your finger on some cloth, it could be your jeans or your socks, or maybe a flannel shirt.
Different, rub your finger on different materials.
Maybe the carpet or just the flat surface of the table.
Feelings have, you know, you, the, the feeling of a texture, of a textile has, uh, you know, maybe it has bumps, maybe it doesn't, maybe it's rough, maybe it's smooth.
But those are temple and spatial characteristics that, that, um, a grid of cells is modeling, it's modeling what it is.
It's, it's, it's taking lots of moments of, uh, the feeling and putting them together and compiling them so that, it's compiling them so that your experiences of that feeling, um, develop.
The more you sort of, the more you sort of tune in and pay attention to and continue to experience that, that feeling.
And they, and they, um, you know, at some, at some point, uh, you know, when you're really, when you're paying attention to something, uh, the, the multimodal nature of what, of paying attention to something is going to be engaging multiple areas.
There's the brain simultaneously, like the visual cortex, the occipital cortex, I'm sorry, the occipital cortex is the visual cortex, but I mean the occipital, the parietal, the temporal, the prefrontal.
Different areas of the brain are going to be engaged when you're paying attention to something.
And, you know, so that's why, that's why I made the joke about being the, the temporal parietal not being the, the module we can add on to make machines conscious,
but instead being the LED, uh, the, of the, uh, uh, of con, of the, the consciousness in terms of, uh, um, an indicator that the, um, that enough of the global workspace across multiple regions has been, um, you know, has been activated and is, is interlaced and is communicated.
It could be an indicator of cross-talk between the senses, which actually makes sense.
That actually makes sense, because when you're paying attention to something, there is a convergence of your sensory activities.
And, and, so if you're, if you're really paying attention to someone, that means you're bringing your, your visual representations in alignment with your auditory representations in alignment with your somatosensory representation.
And that probably result in, would, would result in some peak activity in your temporal parietal junction, or TPJ, because it's right at the center of your, uh, incoming, uh, of, of the primary sensor cortices.
And, um, so in, um, in that sense by itself, like, you could say that thinking that of the TPJ as the, as the, um, the consciousness module sort of obscures an alternative idea in which you're just thinking of it as, um,
as, um, as, a symbol that your, that your primary sensory cortices are working together at the highest level, which is a, which is, um, which is going to be a good correlation of, of multi-sensory, uh, uh, awareness or multi-sensory attention.
And, um, and, so you could, I guess you could argue that, yeah, we have visual, we have attention at every level, uh, of neuroanatomy.
And, um, and, so, it, it, you know, it could, it could, it could just be that, um, because you notice, like, attention can change.
Like, if you use smoke pot, some people become very detail-focused, and they start focusing on details obsessively, like little stuff.
Um, and, so you start to wonder if, um, there's other kinds of ways to alter the mind and what you're focusing on.
It's like, you know, some, some people, um, uh, have had experiences where they'll take a psychedelic medication and they'll, and the, their focus will get very broad
and they'll start thinking of things and then, on a longer timeline, they'll start thinking of, of, of, um, uh, you know, of, like, like, like, maybe look down at your hand
and you can see a hundred years of, of history in your hand or in the clouds.
And you see, uh, speakers going back generations, ancestors.
Uh, great minds.
And this is, like, it's, this is a total opposite of the, of, you know, your mind is, your mind's perspective on time is expanding versus your, your attention contracting.
And, um, uh, so, anyway, going back to, like, yeah, I think maybe the TPJ represents the convergence of the, the primary sensory cortices in terms of, like, attention exists at all levels.
And, and, and, but therefore, like, um, the reason, the top of the hierarchy sort of dominates your conscious attention and you are not necessarily, uh, you know, your consciousness may not, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's not that, so, like, we want to make an argument, like, yeah, well, well, maybe it's only the animals with bigger brains that have consciousness.
But, like, like, like, how do you explain how a roach operates, how do you explain how a mouse operates, or a dolphin, right, and all these different, uh, animals or, like, or, you know, um, insects that have, um, some sort of, uh, operation.
And, and I, and I get that, I get that, you know, we want to, we want to believe that, I want to believe that, uh, fish are not conscious.
But, but, but it's, like, okay, well, what, what, why is, um, why is the consciousness at a high level, right, why is it happening at a high level?
And it could be that, sort of, like, going back to basically the attention schema theory, it could just be that the stuff that is inside consciousness at a high level, like, I'm unconsciously aware of stuff,
It's stuff that is just, um, I mean, I, I guess this is covered already in the theory, like, it's, like, it's the stuff that's dominating other stuff.
It's, it's the patterns that outcompeted other patterns, in a, in a way, that moved up to the higher levels.
But then, but then, and you have, you know, you, you have this sort of competition that patterns go through to become the pattern that is, is dominant in the architecture of the mind.
They're competing against each other.
Um, they're competing to take up space in your mind.
I mean, I mean, it's one way to look at it.
Um, trying to say these patterns have their own agency is, is a little funny.
But, uh, you know, I would say maybe it's the moment, it's the momentum of, of past patterns.
That, uh, and, and, and perhaps also the momentum of, of, um, the memory of what, of your past that you've learned,
in terms of, in terms of what your ancestors did, and that, that drives you, and, um, drives your neural patterns, right?
Your memories, uh, are drivers.
And, because, that, because memories have their own, like, momentum, right?
And, and, um, but yeah, I, I guess I have a big disagreement with Michael Pacasiano,
because I don't think of neural, of, consciousness is just, like, some module that we can just slap on to the back of a, of a robot,
and then suddenly it's going to be able to talk about itself.
That's, I don't want to say that's ridiculous, but that's what I'm thinking.
Um, I think that, that the, if you, if you look, I think that the brain has, is taking turns rendering,
on a large scale, the brain is taking turns, um, just like, just like, okay, so, like, when you think of how a computer monitor works, right?
A computer, a computer monitor, a computer is, is sending, uh, an image to the screen, uh, one pixel at a time, one line at a time.
Like, when, when, when a screen, when a television screen renders, uh, an image, it renders one line at a time.
But it does it so fast that you see, when you, when you look at a computer screen, you, you see, um, an image in the computer screen.
Maybe you see a moving image. Maybe it's a, maybe it's a video or a movie.
And, um, but that, but that is made up of, like, one line being drawn at a time.
Across, one line goes across the top, and then another line underneath it, and then another line underneath it.
Like, like, if you slow down a computer screen, a computer screen is just doing one line at a time.
And then when it gets to the bottom, it goes back up to the top and starts drawing the next frame.
And it has to do, has, like, if you, if you're watching, um, a film that is, uh, 40 frames per second,
or playing a video game that's 120 frames per second, um, that means that it, that,
uh, for each of those frames that happen in, in each second, there, there, what, there's still, like,
you know, one line is being drawn at a time. That line's being drawn so fast
that you don't perceive what, that you don't, you, you typically don't perceive that one line is being drawn at a time.
You just see, you just see the movie, you just see the whole image transforming.
And, um, and that's what I'm suggesting that the whole brain is doing in a distributed way,
is that the, um, you know, the, what, what Michael Brassiano might refer to as the attention schema
is basically, um, the neurons that are activated versus the neurons that are inactivated.
But in a global way, each part of the brain is, is going to sort of, uh, be writing a different line
of the pattern that represents the sequence of things that we consider when we're conscious.
And so, of course, the visual stuff, the screen, uh, of, uh, that we see is going to start in the,
in the B1 area. And, like, like, like, just on a visual level, that's just
all it needs to be. It is, you know, basically creating basic models.
But what those models mean, the meaning of those models, um, that is, that's, that's another thought
that takes up another line on the monitor. And so that's how you, you see, the brain is like a,
it's like a distributed rendering. A distributed drawing. Think of the consciousness as a distributed
drawing where each part of the brain gets to render a different, uh, pixel.
And each oscillator gets to, it gets to, um, and the different pixels are, like, dark. It's like
one line, like, you have a whole bunch of, so you have a cortical column, and each cortical column
in the, in the neocortex is representing one line of the screen of the mind. And, um, and then what
happens is the oscillator, which is all the neurons that didn't fire, that are basically
listening and predicting when they're gonna fire, because they're collecting little electric
surges. Actually, I mean, they're collecting, um, phase differentials. Right? They're, they're,
uh, like, you know, either they're receiving neurotransmitters in a very regular way, um, or they're tracking,
basically, novel, uh, patterns, and predicting when, when they're going to fire, which is going
to allow them to activate in a sequence, in a playback sequence. And so that observation,
that observation, um, is something that the entire, um, the observation that a single neuron is doing
in order to predict when it's going to fire, um, is something that's also being done by the network, or the
oscillator, or the cortical column. So, yes, so we have, so we have predictive coding at the individual
neuron level, but we also have predictive coding at the oscillator, uh, level, at the cortical column
level, and, uh, we have predictive coding at the, um, larger scale of, of different brain regions. And so the neuron,
so the interneurons are participating in predictive coding of, of, of, you know, firing at the greatest
level. And that, and so what I'm saying is, like, at all levels, we're, you know, at the micro level,
we're deciding on individual pixels. And, uh, at the cortical column level, which is also the same as the
oscillator level, or, you know, the meso level, we have, uh, we're doing lines. So pixels, lines, that we're
rendering. Uh, and then at the global level, it's like, okay, the global level is like, um, the cortical columns
are going to play back in sequences. So that it's like one line gets filled in, then the next line, then the
next line, then the next line, then the next line. And then you have, the computer has now rendered an entire
frame for your eyeball. But it's not for your eye, it's not for your eyeball. It's just that, it's you have, um, not a
singular observer, but you have, um, the network itself being an observer. You have a distributed
observer. You have many small observers that work together to create the illusion of the singular
observer, because the many small observers are, uh, producing, uh, together, collectively, they're
producing a common, common pattern.
