=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0148y Representation Prediction Reactions
First recorded: 2021-10-11T01:03:51.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/0e2cacb3-d10a-4426-a4c5-06190d49961a
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Imagine a temporarily and spatially active, response-able representation, right?
It's that consciousness is not just a rendering in your head, but it is a rendering that responds to reality.
It responds to what you see, hear, and feel.
And it responds to yourself, your own muscle movements, your voice movements, your hand movements, your feet movements.
It's a representation that responds.
It is response-able.
And think about the word responsibility.
You have the ability to respond to something, you are response-able.
And that's exactly what we're, it's not just an illusion.
It's a response-able rendering or representation.
And that's, and that is, and you say, well, is it a driver or is it just an observer?
It responds, it reacts.
Okay, so what I'm saying is that, you know, with, with, uh, with any kind of choice, that what you have, um, is basically multiple futures being predicted in your mind, predicted and depicted.
Like, I'm imagining that I could go to two different places right now, one of them being South End Rowing Club, or I could go to the grocery store.
Or I just came, I just came from the grocery store, or I could go to my gym, or I could go to the South End and then my gym.
Each of these different things that I mentioned is a prediction that was a, it's a prediction, it's like a sequence of steps that I am imagining or rendering.
In a sense, computationally rendering, uh, uh, an imaginary path that I, imaginary paths that I could take.
I could take multiple different paths.
And, you know, so you get to this point where, uh, there's multiple different paths.
And you say, okay, now I'm going to choose one path or another.
All I'm arguing is that, in a sense, um, you know, I, my, my mind is, is set up in such a way that I am reacting to whatever I think is, is, uh, the best path.
Um, the, the path that fits my criteria, that matches my, uh, my criteria is my list of arguments, my reasoning, my reasons for why I would do this or that.
And you say, well, okay, well, maybe I'm going to choose to skip the rowing club because I have a reason today to not go there first.
And I want to go to the gym first.
I want to go to the gym first.
This is something at the gym that I want to use today.
And, uh, let's see.
And so, what I'm saying, what I'm getting to is that, um, that my choice is a, it's essentially a, um, a reaction to a predict, to a prediction.
It's a reaction to a rendered prediction.
And so, where I'm at right now is a rendered prediction.
Where I can go next is a, is a series of rendered predictions.
And the, and the rendered prediction that, um, that I, that my, that I'm selecting, you can call it a choice.
But from another point of perspective, you could call it a, a reaction, a response.
You call it a response.
Right?
Well, would you like, uh, chocolate cake right now?
Would you like a glass of orange juice?
Or both?
And, uh, maybe you pick one.
Maybe you pick the other.
And maybe you pick both.
Or maybe you pick none.
But, you can call those things choices.
You can call those things responses.
You can call those things reactions.
And, uh, and I'm, I'm calling them reactions.
And what your reaction, what you're reacting to, or what's reacting, what is, what's happening is that there's, uh, there's a prediction, uh, rendering of, of where you are now.
And, uh, there's a, there's a, there's a series of reactions between, you know, going from point A to point B, from where you are to where you're going next.
They're going to go from point A to point B to point C.
But it is reactions.
And it is, the, the point is, these are, uh, the, the collection of all the data points in, in each rendering is like this, like, okay, well, you know, maybe you are, what is the modalities that, that you're picturing?
Like, in the context of, like, I'm seeing a path in front of myself right now, or so my, my mind is rendering, it's rendering what my eyes are seeing, right?
But I'm also, but I also, but I also imagine, okay, well, imagining the gym, and, for me, there's a visual representation when I imagine the gym.
Uh, and maybe I think about the, the, the words, the letters, G, Y, M.
Um, but there's a representation, and there's, then there's this link, there's this link between two representations, and, you know, maybe the representations are calculated in different, different areas.
Maybe the, the, the, the word gym is, is being represented in the, in the auditory cortex, in the, and where I am now is, is represented in the, in the visual cortex, and there's an interneuron, or interneurons, that are linking together these two different areas, and coordinating activities, so that, uh, that also informs my muscle movement.
As to where, where my, where my, you know, how my legs are going to move, and where they're going to take me, and, uh, it's like, I'm, I'm, I'm, like, describing what, what happens is, for a human being, in, in mechanical terms, so, like, this is, like, you know, if we can create, if we can create a, if we can create a robot that does this, it basically renders where it is now, it renders where it wants to go, and what I'm saying, what I'm saying, what I'm saying with rendering, you know, is a term that is described to,
to a computer that is, uh, taking inputs, and putting together a 3D model, on a, that, that a human being would perceive from the screen, it's basically, rendering is, is, um,
a computer, a computer, a computer generating a, a 2D or 3D image, it, it's, uh, it's a, it's a sequence of, of ones and zeros that have been engineered to fire off on a, on a screen, but, but more than that, it is, the rendering is, the, the, the, sort of program, or instructions,
for how, for, for how, for how the, for how the, the rendering is, the process of rendering is, the instructions that lead to the image that you're receiving at one moment of time, but, and so, it's a visual, it's a visual concept, rendering, but, um, but it, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's,
Okay, so, it's a, like, taking something, what we need is, a, sort of concept, for taking something that is, uh,
ones and zeros at the root, but transforming those ones and zeros into a pattern that's
far from ones and zeros, like a square or a cube that you see on a screen.
The reason why this concept of rendering is important, not just for visual stuff, but
for describing what, you know, audio stuff is because you're in what touch is, touch is
touch rendering. So touch is not necessarily something that you're going to see, although
I guess you could have a visual representation of touch as well. You could have visual representation
of audio, you could have visual representations of electromagnetism.
But these things are, you know, with touch is something that's felt, and audio is something
that's hurt. But it's still something that your brain is sort of receiving piecemeal. Like,
you're getting a lot of tiny impressions. Tiny impressions that the networks of your brain
are putting together into larger impressions, right? It's, it's, it's that, that's exactly
what a neural network does. It takes a lot of tiny impressions, and it, it, it, uh, figures
out how they are related to one another. How, uh, you know, all of these, how all of these
thoughts that are on, and all of these thoughts that are off, uh, uh, uh, at some higher level
of recognition, there's a line that's recognized. And the line could be a part of, of, uh, the
letter A, or it could be an edge. It could be the perception of a line that distinguishes,
uh, the difference between one object and the next. It could be. And, um, a neuron is a multimodal
3D neural network. And, um, so I see, so, okay, so we're gonna have, so, okay, pause it.
