=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0156y Paying attention to what you are seeing Brain Neurons Peak
First recorded: 2021-10-09T06:29:10.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/ccaf0e2a-d3c8-42de-a881-999f39145650
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Uh, the idea is that, um, uh, let's say that I changed. Like, I had one, uh, idea of myself. I had one idea of what I needed to be. I had one idea about what my ego was.
And then I, and then I experienced a change. And the change felt, like, uh, automatic. Like, I didn't do it. Like, I was just forced into a change. Like, my information criteria, my predictions, changed. My information criteria changed. My, the way my brain was putting together information changed.
And that automatically, like, I don't know, something happened. There was, like, several events that happened. I had a lot of thoughts of a certain type of pattern. And, like, like, building up arguments against, against, um, against, um, what I really wanted.
Like, like, I was thinking. Like, I was thinking. I was trying to decide what I really wanted.
And how I really wanted to be. And trying to make a case for and against. And the case against.
One. The case, so, like, the case, so, the case for had never been fully considered. But when it was considered, it was overwhelming. And the case for was, like, yeah, this is, like, I'm really for this.
But then the case against started growing. And it kept growing until I didn't want to do that anymore.
And then, um, uh, and I feel like I never accepted that as a choice. Like, it didn't feel like a choice.
I felt like I saw myself change.
I witnessed a transformation. I witnessed a transformation. Like, an electromagnetic transformation of my face.
Um, and, and then I went through more changes.
There were other changes. And I don't, I'm not, I'm not getting into specifics here. But I, things changed.
Like, unexpected things. Uh, my ideas, uh, about the world, changed.
And, it was, like, reaching another stage of your development as a human being.
Like, you know, when you, when you mature, like, you know, like, the maturity of someone in high school is different from the maturity of someone who's, who's in college.
Right?
Right? And there's, like, there's, like, stages of development or lines of development.
It, what is the, um, uh, what the integral, no, not integral, um, something like spiral dynamics, right?
Spiral dynamics is that you can have all these, um, different development lines and different ways that your mind will transform over time to take on greater complexity to be able to handle different tasks.
Because, you have a person who can run, um, you know, a conference the size of CES has far more capability than the average high school student.
I mean, there is a massive amount of knowledge that the person running the giant conference has acquired.
Knowledge and expertise and skill.
And they've, their mind is very experienced at what they do.
Right? That's professional level.
Um, you have to be great at organizing.
And you have to be able to, um, execute a plan very well.
And you've got to have a great team of people who are, who are just as hardworking as you are.
And just as competent.
And it's, it's an incredible feat to, like, what some people do with organizing massive, um, multi-day events around the world.
You know, or, you know, or organizing massive companies.
That's another massive thing.
Like, Facebook is a massive, complex, like, company of brilliant people doing brilliant things.
Right?
I mean, I mean, the Oculus is just amazing, right?
This is, like, this is so awesome.
The Oculus.
And, um, so, regardless of, you know, how the brain works, uh, how our neurons are collecting and transmitting, uh, information to one another.
And then, and then, uh, collectively as a network, as an oscillating network, being able to put all those small patterns together into a single picture.
Right?
Like, you, it has to, this has to be happening because you are seeing a single picture when you look around with your eyes.
Or when you, when you, when you, when you, I don't know, when you're just, like, even if you don't have eyes, you are experiencing a consistent reality.
You know, you know, that has sound and has touch and has all your, a smell and has, has, has, um, you know, you have a, a, a conscious experience.
Based upon the senses that you do have.
Maybe it's not, maybe it's, you know, it's, it's, different situations out there, right?
But, but, but the, the whole idea is that, you know, um, we were looking at two things.
One is, how did your brain make representations?
And, uh, and maybe it's this.
Maybe it's, uh, maybe this process that I've, I've described.
And maybe not.
Maybe it's a different process.
But, but, either way, it makes sense that your brain is creating representations.
And, it makes sense that your brain is also, uh, putting those representations together.
In a, in a four-dimensional experience where you get three dimensions of space and one dimension of time.
And your brain is putting it together like that.
For all your senses.
To move about.
You know, think about, we're going to, uh, discuss about how all your senses.
How all your senses are spatial and temporal.
Like, the peak, the peak of a feeling.
The peak of a smell.
The peak of, of, of a trumpet sound.
Right?
The peak of, of, uh, touch.
Right?
There's so much, there's so much, uh, you know, to discuss, um, in terms of, you know, when,
the, the, where the feeling is.
Is it in your chest?
Is it in your arm?
Is it in your fingertip?
Where's the pain?
Where's the emotion?
Is the emotion in your neck?
Is it in your lungs?
Is it in your heart?
Is it in your head?
Is it in your feet?
Is it behind you?
Is it in the past?
Is it strong?
Is it weak?
Is it faded?
Is it small?
These are, like, dimensional characteristics.
We're describing the, we're describing properties, uh, pertaining to space and time.
You know, where is it relative to you?
And when is it?
And what's, what is, and when is the pattern large and when is it small and doesn't move?
Like, these are spatial characteristics and temporal characteristics, right?
And this is what your brain is really good at modeling, four-dimensional space-time.
It can model it through neurons that fire or talk, or it can perceive it by other neurons
who are paying attention in order to predict when they're going to fire in the sequence,
because that's called predictive coding.
So it's paying attention to what it's rendering.
It's you paying attention to what you're seeing.
