=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0150y The multilevel concept of mind a self model with no self Neurons Hippocampus Vibrations
First recorded: 2021-10-10T00:07:00.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/8ef15e40-4fc4-4de3-b6a6-e7296941b99f
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So, for me, the multi-level concept of mind is, you know, at the root of it, there's a sensory prediction and a motor prediction coming together that eventually results in a body of causality that's tracked, or a map of the general direction of where causes are coming from.
That is the result of, basically, predictive coding that develops a model of the self.
And, over time, the self acquires a lot of features, and then it becomes complex enough that the learned representations of the self can be applied to other humans,
and what we learn about other humans can then also be applied back to ourselves.
But, I suggest that, ultimately, beyond the model of the self that's learned by the mind, there's no real self that's driving choices.
Rather, the brain activity, at multiple levels, it's selecting, it's making selections, and at the highest level, it's the hypothalamus.
Not the hypothalamus, but the hippocampus.
The hippocampus coordinating the neocortex.
So, human consciousness has specific identifiable properties that differ from what your computer is doing,
and that a computer can have, can print representations to a screen,
but, in this case, the representations are printed by neurons, to neurons,
where each neuron is its own neural network,
and it is experiencing a multimodal collection of data.
It's nodes are becoming temporally weighted by incoming phases that are stored as,
that are received as mechanical and electric vibrations,
and magnetic vibrations, and magnetic changes,
but, so there's a,
that's the multimodal aspect.
back.
