=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0167y Universe Atoms Oscillation
First recorded: 2021-10-02T23:05:46.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/d918734a-8892-44c3-bd18-ca0631485a20
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
I realized that I needed to think of my, um, so there was this, um, during the Law of Attraction they talked about, like, okay, imagine that there's the content of the mind, which is everything you can see, hear, feel, taste, see, every thought, every distinction, all of your thoughts, all of your positive or negative thoughts, there's all that content.
And then there's everything that it's in, or the space between everything.
Like, if you can visualize putting two fingers together, those fingers are not actually touching.
It's like, it's more like, a finger's actually kind of like a cloud, that's mostly empty space.
The cloud itself has enough density to push away, to push away other clouds.
So you can put two fingers up, up together, and you can push one, you can use one finger to push another finger.
And the density of one cloud is pushing the other one.
But if you, if you zoom in, at a very micro, like, like, if you, this is what I've heard, I haven't done this myself, but if, allegedly, if you zoom in with, with the microscope, uh, you can't ever find the point when one finger actually touches the other one.
Because, because, because, because the fingers, the fingers are ultimately made out of atoms.
And atoms are mostly empty space.
The, one, the one thing that, that an atom does that helps provide structure, is it sort of, um, creates its own density.
And, and, it's moving very fast, it's oscillating very fast.
Um, it is, in a sense, a kind of, it is, it's like intrinsic oscillation, in one sense.
Um, like, like, like the frequency of the universe.
Like, it's an electromagnetic, it's an, an atom is like an oscillation inside an electromagnetic field.
Um, and that oscillation is creating the density, and the density is the, of space-time, which is not separate from the content of space-time, is, um, creating, is creating the density that allows, uh, uh, one cloud of atoms to repel and push on another cloud of atoms without actually touching.
Because, because they're densifying the space around them.
The, the, um, the atom itself, I think, represents sort of like, it's like a whirlpool in an ocean.
So, the atom itself is like a cyclone or vortex inside the, the context of, of four-dimensional space-time.
So, it's warping space and time together.
And, um, but it is, like, but see, the idea, it's like, it is an instance of space-time warping on itself, right?
As if all of space-time is one, is, is non-dual or one thing, right?
It's an instance of space-time warping on itself.
So, it's like, and this, this, um, let's say that you have, let's say that, um, space-time, let's say that without these vortices, there's no space-time.
There's no, um, if, if the, if all the atoms stop spinning, then the space would collapse into nothing.
Because, it is their spin, which gives space its dimension.
It's the speed of their spin, right?
Um, the speed, the frequency, the speed is like frequency of the oscillation, but it's, but it's, it's, that's inverted to their amplitude, right?
So, if they go faster, and they're smaller, and they go slower, and it's, then it's, it's bigger.
It's a bigger effect.
In that sense, in that sense, the, the, the, that's a mechanism for, that's a very crude mechanism for how the cosmos could sort of, um,
have the ability to, um, have the ability to, like, learn, in a sense, learn patterns.
Patterns could be learned, or developed, um, because, stuff, because, because of random events, um, they
eventually, uh, discover certain patterns.
It's like, it's like how the game of life, how, like, you know, certain patterns just sort of, like, emerge from basic physics.
And you could call it learning, you could call it memory, but it is, like, this process of, of a, of a, of a, of a pattern starting to, of oscillations that are having a cascading effect on one another, that are, that are, like, patterns emerging from, from chaos, basically.
Because of the, because of the, the turbulence of chaos resulting in accidental patterns that, that begin to develop themselves on, uh, functionally opposite to the second law of thermodynamics.
Say, where, in, in, in one sense, that, that, that they become, instead of entropy always increasing, you have local areas of entropy, um, uh, decreasing, or extrapy increasing, so order increasing.
So, if, uh, entropy is chaos, then extrapy is order increasing, or the complexity of, of a local system increasing because it's consuming a nearby system and exporting greater entropy, greater entropy to the surrounding environment in an open system.
Um, and, and, this goes on, I think, because, um, um, and maybe as a certain, there's a certain inevitability to this kind of pattern emerging in a truly chaotic system.
Where, um, where, if you have complete chaos, like, true random chaos, because there's no, um, there's no, um, there's no, it's like, this sort of, like, as if the original universe was a perfect, um, uh, non-dual system.
Um, that would be, um, that would be, like, a yin-yang system, where there's 50% of darkness and 50% light, and it's intermixed, because, like, the, like, the original state is, like, and there's, like, but, so, that distinction is, like, well, why not?
It's, like, it's, like, the universe has randomness because there's, because that is the state of what the universe would be if there was no, sort of, like, uh, voice, I guess?
If there was, if there was no instruction to how the universe was, then it has to have a default state.
So, like, it's, it's like saying, yeah, so, but here's the thing, is, is, like, if the initial instruction was not a one, and then you say, okay, well, then it's a zero.
But what if it's not a zero or a one?
Like, right, the initial state of the universe.
It's not a zero or a one.
Well, if there's no one there to decide, okay, well, it's, it's not going to be one or the other.
If there's no, like, if there's no, if there's no decision that's been made as to what kind of universe it is.
Then it has to be, sort of, uh, unbiased towards what kind of universe it could be.
And that's why, that's why it's, like, the initial state is, like, just anything that is possible is sort of possible.
Uh, in the initial state.
Right.
Like, you have an, you have this, um, uh, alternate, alternate state in which possibilities are collapsing because the inimitability of some, of some patterns randomly emerging are, is, is, is something that the universe moves towards being one that has patterns.
So, it's, like, okay, so it's, like, imagine there's a polarity in time.
So, there's a beginning of time and an end of time.
And, it's a magnet.
So, one of the two, the beginning or the end, has order and the other one has chaos.
So, it's, like, there's a trend where, right now the story is that entropy is always increasing.
So, the universe is moving towards increasing entropy.
And, that is the flow of time.
But, if you were to do, if you were to reverse time, you would say, okay, well, no, the universe is moving towards increasing order in reverse time.
So, the developing complexity of the universe.
And, perhaps, okay, so here's the other thing.
So, maybe there's, like, a mathematical requirement.
So, like, let's say that entropy always has, entropy overall in the forward arrow direction of time has to increase.
But, let's say it's not possible for entropy to increase unless, totally.
Let's say it's not possible for entropy to increase totally unless, at some point,
little life forms emerge to the, you know, little vortexes emerge that stir shit up, right?
They have to move the universe from one possible state, let's call it positive,
to another possible state, which is negative.
And, this conversion process causes the flow of time, basically.
Flow of time, because it's not actually, because there's no actual flow of time.
It's just that the universe is, just that what we experience as time is, in a sense,
the universe traveling between its two states, one of positive and one of negative.
So, it's like the universe is always traveling between two states.
One in which there's complete entropy and one of those is complete extropy.
But, it's also possible that the universe is always traveling between two states from both directions at the same time.
So, that would mean that there's always a state of maximum extropy at the beginning.
And, a state of maximum extropy, so it's like a, it's like, but in a different location.
So, like, imagine the universe, in each time zone, is splitting the total number of positives and negatives, right?
But, maybe it's more, but maybe it's that, I don't know, maybe, maybe, it's that, it's more,
maybe it's more evenly distributed on one end, and more unevenly distributed on the other end.
Or, maybe it's like, or maybe it's like, a cyclical process of, always like, in this constant conversion process of,
of increasing in entropy in one place, and increasing in extropy in another place.
And, a sort of, like, never-ending loop of movement, which is just the, sort of, nature of improbability.
Sort of like the nature of improbability.
And, uh, probability.
