=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0173y Eyes Neurons Photons Ganglion
First recorded: 2021-10-01T18:00:29.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/223cedf7-fd6f-4ade-b5fd-67158f404de5
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Speaking of the eyes, there was a study where scientists wanted to know if light was actually, because the idea is that light doesn't enter your brain from the eyes, that it bounces off the ganglion neurons, and it doesn't even make it to the cone receptors.
Which is weird, because we've been told, we've been told that, like, basically, so the cones are behind the ganglion neurons, and there's, like, interneurons between the ganglion neurons and the light cones.
But light doesn't actually reach the light cones.
So you have, like, blue light receptors, and you have, I mean, the blue light, I mean, so some of the wavelengths might get through, but most of it is gonna,
uh, get absorbed by the membrane of the eye.
Now, here's the thing, so photons enter the eyeball, right, and then the retina is where you have this sandwich of neurons, and the first layer is the ganglion neurons,
then you have interneurons, which just means that they're, they're not, uh, facing that, they're just in between the sensory neurons, the ganglion neurons, in this case.
And, uh, the cones, the cones, the light cones.
But, it seems like what's happening is that the light cones must be interpreting data, electrons, they must be interpreting electrons from the ganglion neurons, right?
So, the idea is that the photons enter your, your eye, and then they're gonna, they're essentially trapped inside the eye socket for a little while, and they're bouncing around.
Um, but they're able to, to, um, your brain is able to record sequence, sequences of events in terms of spatial patterns.
So, for the, I mean, I'm not, not exactly sure if, if, uh, the way ganglion neurons operate is, how similar that is to pyramidal cells, which I've studied more deeply.
But it is, it is, um, I'd be interested to know if it, if it, if it, if it's the dendrite of the ganglion neurons that's actually sort of, like, facing.
Because what I heard is that the photons are bouncing off of proteins.
That, that, uh, like, imagine a, uh, a photon is like a ping pong ball, and it's bouncing off proteins on, that are connected to neurons.
That are causing the proteins to flip around, and then that movement is creating, um, an electrical, like, an electrical, uh, activity signal.
Which would be, then, translated into a chemical signal, and passed along the optic nerve.
But I kind of have to, I guess I have to recap this whole thing, but, but interesting is to notice that there was, I wanted to say, I want to look up, I want to reference, I want to re, recover the article.
Where scientists, uh, went, and they, and they said, well, actually, um, light does exist in the brain.
It is emitted in the brain.
So, maybe, uh, maybe photons, uh, maybe photons are getting into the brain.
And so there was a recent study in the last two years where they sort of, like, re-looked at this whole, at this whole thing to see if light was actually getting into the brain.
If the brain was doing anything with light.
I think it required a second look, because some of, like, some of our assumptions about how things are, are off by a little bit.
You know, sometimes the explanations, they just leave out some crucial piece of information, and then that sort of, like, changes the meaning, that changes the meaning of it.
Right? So, the idea is that, you know, with a split-brain patient, you've severed the left and right hemispheres.
But, over time, those patients will, um, their, their extreme symptoms, uh, will subside.
And that's because, uh, the thalamic bridges also connect the two hemispheres.
So, you've severed the corpus callosum, and you're just creating a temporary networking issue for the brain that it has to re-route around
in order to reconcile the short-term problems that have been caused.
And so we see the emergence of what appears to be two different personalities, the left and right hemisphere.
But over time, eventually, one of the hemispheres, uh, will become dominant again.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
