=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0187y Brain Compunds Patterns in Oscillations
First recorded: 2021-09-26T03:08:16.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/c3e11dea-d780-4b15-afae-619cf738b79d
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
It's pretty obvious that the brain is rendering the experience of consciousness with frequencies, because that would cover it. That would be enough.
And that's what we can see the brain doing with each action potential, is creating exactly that.
And so what we need is, okay, so besides intaking patterns and turning them into other kinds of patterns and generating specifically frequencies,
besides that, what we need is a theory of how all the different, what we need is a theory of how all the different,
how the brain can turn all these different disparate frequencies, how the brain can recognize them, ingest them, and combine them to cognitive patterns.
So, we're saying that, yeah, the brain is spreading out all of these frequencies at, with time intervals, and the rest of the brain is watching.
And so what we need is a pattern.
We need to just show different ways, different mechanics, mechanical possibilities for how these micro-pattern frequencies could be combined.
And the answer is, there is an illustration of this process happening with point net++, which basically is, uses deep learning opportunities to figure out which points in a 3D scene belong together,
which points belong to this object, and how do we classify this object.
So we want to do object segmentation and classification, and you can also call that semantic, 3D semantic segmentation.
The analogy is sort of an explanation for how this can be done, but in addition to that,
you can say that, well, knowledge can be inferred not just from that method, that's not the only method,
but there's also tomography, but there's also, you know, if you look at the Fourier slice transform,
that's another tomographic-like pattern recognition machine, where you can take and then combine them together.
You know, I think a pretty good example of, you know, the, like, how to relate one set of data to another,
two unstructured sets of data that are common besides basic, besides either, like, a basic frequency pattern,
or they might have a temporal and inspiration frequency pattern, it's not like there's isomorphisms,
it's not like there's obvious isomorphisms between two different sets of data,
because there's electron encephalogram data, which is different.
And so the approach that was created for that pipe, the pipe, pipe, it's able to, to create a link,
basically, between two different unstructured sets of data, by having the, um, the, the data, basically, time-coded.
Like, if we have a time-code for when your heartbeat, and we have a time-code for when your brainwave spikes,
then we can make an association between a wild heartbeat pattern,
2D convolutional neural networks, to get at, uh, the, 2D convolutional CNNs,
and they want to get at, uh, the data that's really hard to parse,
so they create an imaginary dimension, an imaginary vector, so they're using imaginary numbers,
and it makes, it ends up making the memory robust, so they're less susceptible to dropouts,
that, I mean, they're less susceptible to the problem that you dropouts solves,
which is, um, which is, the problem that dropouts solves is, uh, it's called, um, overfitting.
So, that's the thing, so, there's one thing about, you know, PointNet++,
it's because the data is, the data being fed into the machine, it's possible that because it's more robust,
because it's, it's 3D, because there's, like, multiple angles that you could see with tomography,
if you have multiple angles, you can predict the, the concept, which is the 3D object,
that is beyond the slices of the Fourier slice, uh, projection theorem.
You can predict the 3D object from the slices, you could predict, which is analogous to predicting the concept,
from, uh, from, uh, just pieces of the concept.
Say, oh, there is, uh, there is a way that all these different disparate ideas fit together,
that's the concept, right?
The concept of the concept is that this concept represents a map of how all these lower level pieces of information fit together.
And, um, so, the concept of, of, uh, yeah, I'm not gonna go this far.
And, think of, um, how, if you imagine the field of view of a VR headset,
like, there's been a lot of discussion over the years,
with the 90 field of view, 110 field of view, what's the right trade-off for Oculus?
Should Oculus try to do, to put a larger field of view inside the Oculus?
So, they've tried to put a larger field of view inside the Oculus Quest.
Uh, uh, two.
Would that have affected, would that have, well, how would that, how much would that have affected the price?
Like, if you think about, you know, the description, the Master Magically came along, and he had this great description.
He, the founder of Magically had, uh, this great description of what a light field was.
He sort of introduced the concept to a lot of people who hadn't really heard the concept of a light field before.
But, like, everything in your field of vision is, that you're seeing is, is the light field.
It's the, it's the field of photons that are bouncing off of everything, causing the, the, uh, the, uh, the light to change its frequency
based upon the color of what is refracting off of.
So that your eyes can collect that frequency and then interpret the world as a beauty model that you, the character, are walking around inside.
You know, crawling around inside, or lying around inside.
And so the, um, so the light field is, at the point, so you, see, your brain doesn't capture, it doesn't bring in the light field raw.
It doesn't have a direct import.
It has to use your eyes to bring in the light field.
And the eyes can only, like, the only thing that happens with your eyes is that the light field hits the, the proteins in the ganglia neurons
and it causes them to flip. And that's, that, when, when you have enough, uh, of the, the ganglia neurons flipping,
then you get to a situation where, uh, the, the, the eye has recognized something and a pattern is sent inward.
Or maybe, I don't know how, I don't know how, if the eyes work like that, or if the, or if the ganglia neurons will just,
or maybe they're more, like, passive gated, right, and they just send the signals onward, you know?
I don't know. I have to find out more exactly.
But the point is that your, your brain is just collecting, like, a lot of dots.
It's tracking, tracking dots.
It's figuring out its position, uh, with multiple, multiple kinds of senses.
But one of those senses is just, you know, noticing visual clues in the environment, right?
Noticing some sort of environmental feature or some feature of the room or space that it's in.
That helps the creature, helps the brain of the organism to orient itself within that room and to figure out which room it's in.
And its brain, like, its memories store little representations of each room in specific sections.
And that's why when you see a, when a mouse moves through a maze,
the neuroscientist who's looking at the mouse's brain will see different place cells and grid cells light up corresponding to,
the place cells corresponding to what place the, uh, the mouse is in relationship to the room that it's in.
Like, what its orientation is. Like, where, close to which wall.
Those are what the place cells are, are indicating.
And that way, if there's a memory that's, like, noticed.
If, if there's now, if now there's, like, food received at one, uh, of the, that can be seen.
If it's food that can be seen from one of the positions in one of the place cells that's been activated,
then that, uh, then the location of that food is now, is now able to, with he being learning,
to wire with the, with the place of, uh, that the, that the mouse has learned to recognize as a place.
Uh, or, not, not a place, but as, as a, uh, position inside a place.
And then we have the grid cells will help the mouse to remember which room it was out of all the different rooms.
Alright, so it has a way of categorizing, uh, spaces.
What, oh, by using the, the, the topology of the substrate of the brain
to plot out, um, spatial memories and temporal memories.
But using, actually, the actual space of the brain to plot out the knowledge of spaces
and the memory of being in different spaces.
And, um, so that memory is conducive to the functioning of, of the brain.
In fact, um, already with virtual reality, uh, we have a, we have a new next generation brain computer interface.
Right?
The brain is learning to, the brain, potentially, depending on how virtual reality is used,
the brain is, is, is learning to, um, communicate with, with, uh,
communicate its intentions into the computer.
And right now, it's like, the input is very simplified.
Like, you know, we've got controllers and buttons and, um, and they're really great.
The six dock controllers, you, you, you can bring your whole hands and arms into VR.
Um, but soon your entire body.
I mean, what I'm saying is, like, if all, if the other thing you've tried is the Oculus Quest 2,
then you, you wouldn't know why we're so excited about virtual reality.
Because we see, because, um, the people in the VR industry have seen, have gone to trade shows,
and they've seen, um, stuff that hasn't come out yet.
That is just, you know, for whatever reason, for mostly, a lot of times it's for economics,
but also it's just for, you know, it's hard to, this is a difficult,
it's hard to coordinate a business in a world like this, right?
For a business to, uh, continue to launch products and to succeed and to innovate
and to deliver new services in a timely way, it is actually a really hard thing to do.
And, um...
A compounded, um...
It's actually, okay, so a compounded, uh...
A compounded series of representations.
A compounded series of, of megahertz, of hertz and megahertz, uh, patterns.
Uh, over, uh...
Detected by, um, Tempo Spatial Pattern Acquisition System.
So, the Tempo Spatial Pattern Acquisition System is projecting,
is also projecting Tempo Spatial Pattern predictions for the rest of the network to detect.
And the pattern, it has, uh, sort of, meta-stability that's accomplished by oscillations.
Temporal stability accomplished by oscillations in coordination with other oscillations.
So, what each of the oscillations is making is being passed around.
But the key for one oscillation to update the information to another oscillation
is that they have to be synced temporally, which is similar to neural pipes.
A way to synchronize data by, by matching them, by putting them on matching, uh, uh, timescales.
So you could convert a peak that's in one dataset to a peak in another dataset,
as long as both peaks happen at the same time.
But then in and of itself is kind of like the Fourier Slice Transform,
in that you can make a connection between one, um, object and...
One, one, one slice of an object and another slice of an object,
and another slice of an object because of where those slices, um, intersect.
Or with, or with tomography, it's like, or with electrical and penis tomography, it's like,
well, it has to, the signal has to travel through each material at different rates,
and so that affects the amount of time it takes for the signal to be received on the following end.
And so, um, so you have, you have one transmitter and a whole bunch of receivers,
and they all receive a signal at a different time,
and that creates a sort of image of density, of the density that it has to travel through.
Because it's how much it's going to be slowed down before it gets to a certain sensor.
And then the next, the next sensor is going to transmit,
and it's going to create another image of the density of what it had to travel through.
Those two, those two slices, those two images, if you combine them,
you can find that there are certain intersections where there's more density,
and certain intersections where there's less density.
And you keep, you keep adding more and more of these, um, slices,
and you can start to, uh, identify objects inside the materials.
And combine it with deep learning, and, you know, it begins, you know,
you basically do object detection.
But it, you know, imagine that you can take slices not just from, like, left or right,
but from above or below, or from any direction.
And, and, so you see that if the brain can line up what's going on with your eyes and with your ears,
such as through, if you can line up both temporarily,
then if a lightning strike, like, lightning strike happens within close proximity of a thunder strike,
then the brain can link them together, because there's a proximal connection.
But then, what emerges from that is a concept of, you know,
wait a second, these, the thunder, the thunder and lightning, they always come together,
so they must be part of one single fundamental force.
And, and the development of the concept of what that is,
of what that could be, is, um, is sort of like, you know,
that, it's sort of like, that, that's, that question is sort of begged.
Human is, the human being is, is sort of asked to puzzle,
well, what is lightning and thunder if they're connected?
And eventually, we have electricity, right?
The brain compounds patterns, um, meaning, which essentially means that, like,
the same patterns are learned everywhere.
And, because, they're learned everywhere because there's a coordinated structure
that needs to repeat the patterns on a large scale when they become part of the active,
uh, become part of the active, uh, rendering.
So, we have to.
So, I'm looking into an art store.
There's, like, a metal dog.
It's, looks like it was made of sheet metal and rivets.
It's really ugly, actually.
But, it's also impressive in a strange way.
So, yeah, like, I can see, okay, this is gonna make part of a living room,
but, it's a ridiculous waste of space.
There's all this, like, ornamentation, I guess, is good.
If you have a vast amount of space, who has a vast amount of space in San Francisco, though?
I mean, I guess somebody does.
And then, like, so when I'm looking at this art in the art store,
especially, like, striking, sort of like, um, almost like, impressions of something that's real, but just exaggerated a little bit.
Like the Rasa concept.
Like the concept of Rasa.
Before your, your eyes are sort of like, caught in this like, in this surreal, it's like, slightly surreal, and like, what the fuck.
Like, there's no purpose for that fucking thing at all.
It's a fucking paperweight.
But it's art, actually.
It's a paperweight, but it's art.
And so, you like, you get to sort of like, have this like, you know, what the fuck?
We've got something useless here.
Just for the entertainment of your eyeballs.
Yeah, I mean, that's, it's, it's, it's, it's annoying and interesting at the same time.
Um, I think that if you have a lot of visitors, then, um, you have something new and novel to show people that you didn't have.
And, uh, I'm just gonna have to ask everybody to stay the fuck away from me.
But the whole point is that the art is like, because it's, uh, it's off by just an amount, just an exaggeration.
It's out of place just enough.
Interesting just enough.
The, your awareness sort of lingers on it a little longer than something that was not art.
It's more interesting than something that's not art.
And so, because it sort of like, engages your psyche and triggers some sort of pattern in your, pattern recognition in your, in your brain that cascades around,
it's basically compounding multiple pattern recognition points, multiple points of pattern recognition.
Like, are compounded together with that art experience.
And, uh, so that is why, so that is why, uh, um, it's like, yeah, what if you have like, a room that is like, has a unique art experience, unique lighting experience, unique sound experience, and unique smell experience.
And unique vibrations from the floor.
And you have a room that's like a coffee room where there's like, the whole point of it is to divest yourself of the memory of the previous room as much as possible.
It's like black and boring, brown, white, all these different like, non, just like, boring colors, grays, and different shades of gray.
And the whole point is that, uh, you're supposed to divest yourself of like, the resonance of the art that you just experienced in the other room.
Then you go into one more room, and once again, we've got bright lights, but say, maybe like, the first room was like, sort of like, maybe reddish purple.
Now we're like, blue and green.
It's just like, the point is that it's a different light spectrum, different like, show, different art style, different music, completely different smell.
Maybe the room temperature is different.
And you have like, you know, one of them like, it evokes something.
Like the colors and the shapes and the images, they're evoking something colorful and something beautiful.
And the whole point of that is to, um, yeah.
