=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0190y Artificial Neurology Eyeballs Bridge Brain
First recorded: 2021-09-17T20:21:19.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/a078eeca-e95f-4f68-bdae-7c0d941e1a4f
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So I would position the Neuralink device to be on the thalamic bridge, connecting the left and right hemispheres together, the thing that's caught in split-brain patients.
Let me just look that up real quick.
It's that your four-dimensional reality is not just being created and recognized by bits of the brain in a distributed way, but it's also converging into a pipeline that is transmitted down a neural circuit and read by that neural circuit, read out by that neural circuit, so neurons can predict when they're going to fire in that sequence.
But because they're listening, they're also learning.
And so, yeah, that's my argument, is that you can take all these complex hertz frequencies at low scales and large scales, and super large, super large scales, and you could combine them together, sort of like a reverse Fourier transform.
And so you can get this really nice, beautiful four-dimensional image that's basically being piped all over.
It's like many areas of the brain are participating in this collectively sourced image that's being passed around.
It's like everything was realized and then compressed for consumption.
So I had this idea about a game in which I basically give someone several pictures, and it shows like an alien creature that's like walking around the ceiling, but it's getting closer and closer to you.
And like in the frame right before it gets to you, like it's about to pounce, and you see like there's a highlighted gun on the side, right?
And you can select that, and if you select for the next slide, then the next slide is the alien is killing you.
But if you select the gun, and it changes to a whole different set of slides, and now you've shot the alien, and you're running to get away from it, and it's a whole new, it's like a whole new storyline.
So it's like a, it's sort of like an adventure storyline where like there's like, each episode sort of ends in a sort of doom, but you can escape it to continue the story on, onward.
So I thought I could have like a chapter, which is like, like when I'm describing a dream or something, and so it could be, I could talk about how you have this alien that starts, the story about the alien starts to program human proteins to be into things that have, into machine parts.
So it reprograms people's bodies into machine parts, and it like, it creates new biology architectures as well.
So it creates new sorts of life forms that are like hybrids between machines and life forms.
You know, like, like putting a helicopter onto, like a sort of like magnetic helicopter, like onto, into an organic creature that like thinks.
So like, it has a brain and it has a helicopter, so it can fly around, right?
Like, um, and, uh, do stuff.
And then like, it can like shoot out eyeballs, and it can like, it can be covered in eyeballs, and the eyeballs can infect other life forms, and like attach to your hands, and then start converting your biology into more eyeballs, or into whatever it wants.
Because it can basically like reprogram your tissue into its hardware, and as it creates its own parts, it's like, it's like invading your, your body.
It's like, all it does is, once it attaches itself, it starts replicating like a virus, but then it starts also taking over, it starts overtaking, taking over cells, and like, taking over your entire body, and regulating all your signals.
So it controls all your signals, so it stops the emergency, your brain stops fighting, your body stops fighting it, your body just goes along with it.
And you start to thrive, in part because of it, but also like, it causes you, but you have to eat a lot more, and you become very muscular, like a lot more protein.
But it's because it's like, it knows how to program your body perfectly, to just prefer the best fuels, and to just perform like a machine that can control biology like a deity, right?
It can just make anything out of anything.
And so this like, so like it spreads, and it chases people, and it flies atop the skyscrapers, and atop all the buildings, and it flies down, and attaches to people's arms and legs, and there's resistance fighters, but it always manages to overcome the people in the, in the bases.
It's just like, it's just like, it's like this gray goo, that's like spreading all over the world.
It's organic, artificial life.
And, yeah, so then it basically, it takes over the world, and turns all the flesh, all the animals on the planet, into its own computer hardware.
And then it basically, it merges with life, so life becomes like this one super system, this one merged super system, one life form, super intelligent.
And then at that point, it's like, well, actually, then all of the hideous stuff could vanish again, like everything could become like, just really beautiful again.
You know, there could be animals and people again, parks, it could be very paradise-like, like it could be anything.
It's like a, it's like a dream, that any kind of reality could be rendered to the collective mind.
And this comes about because of, um, how did you get it, yeah.
This comes about because of the, uh, the importance of the narrative being, having a sense of reality to it.
Um, so going back to the Thalamic Bridge.
So Thalamic, uh, Bridges could be the portals of the mind's eye, basically.
They represent the paths of conscious experience between regions, brain regions.
Like the fusing, the fusing of different cortical areas happens via Thalamic Bridges.
And, um, between cortical areas.
And, yeah, I wonder how the corpus callosum relates to all this.
I need to look that up.
So neuroscientists are shooting themselves in the foot by not studying the whole dendrite to MVR function.
By seeing the whole dendrite to MVR function as a single function from input to output.
That by itself is a unit of cognition.
That MVR function, that's a neural network.
That's many different possible inputs, uh, patterns sorted, patterns recognized, patterns, um, transmitted in the signal, uh, being transmitted varying by, by an amount unknown to most of the field of neuroscience and most of artificial intelligence.
And that's not getting enough attention and research.
Like the whole, it's great to look at how a dendrite is like a neural network.
But you're missing the whole totality of the meaning of the dendritic function if you're not considering it in the context of microvesicle release.
So we will know if machines are sentient like us because we will build a Thalamic Bridge between an artificial mind and a human mind.
And I'm going to depict this in artwork.
Like an artificial mind and a human mind and having them two connected by a Thalamic Bridge.
And, um, this would be like in the closing of the book.
And this is like about how real neural networks, artificial neurology, and nerve gear will come together.
