=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0198y Puzzle Pieces Causation Consciousness
First recorded: 2021-08-27T07:21:49.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/34cac0c3-335a-4033-9200-c8dae4e2f2be
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So, what I want to talk about here is the idea of the book being about puzzle pieces.
The argument is that we've all, that, so, okay, so, I'm going to recap.
So, I want to talk about my journey, sort of, in the first third of the book, to sort of give a context for when I encountered certain ideas, and how they affected me, and how I came to recently think of some of the amazing concepts that I found as puzzle pieces.
And, so, the argument of the book, essentially, is to change, because I've often heard in arguments about neuroscience, that bridge neuroscience and how to build artificial general intelligence, or AI, super sentient AI, or just conscious AI, or self-aware AI that's conscious and sentient,
sentient, and able to learn any type of knowledge, so as a general, at the same time as being conscious and self-aware, and able to make internal representations.
And, so, what I'm going to argue is that, basically, all the puzzle pieces add up to, we do know what consciousness is.
There, there, there's just a bunch of puzzle pieces all over the place.
And, so, that is the book, the book's narrative, basically, is to pull up all of the puzzle pieces across, you know, different discoveries in neurosciences from different professors, different authors, different teachers.
And, uh, different, uh, you know, you know, researchers.
And, uh, but also to tie, but to tie together some concepts, uh, from, from technology.
Not, not that, uh, uh, I believe that, uh, you know, with technology, we have, uh, lots of interesting analogies.
But, uh, this book intends also to get precise, like, so, like, you, you've seen many neuroscience, there are many neuroscience talks, uh, about consciousness that, that, um, they sort of dance around, that they, they sort of, like, say,
Oh, well, we're just going to, like, throw up our hands with the idea that we're going to be able to tell you today how, what your brain is doing is, is producing phenomenal, the, the phenomenology of, of life experience.
We're going to just, like, hand wave that.
Like, if we're realistic, like, how the brain does that is not the discussion today.
Today, we're going to talk about what we do know and, uh, the pieces that are, that we're putting together.
And there's, there's been a, there's been a lot of talks, um, sort of like that, where everyone's saying, we don't know how consciousness works, or even how to define consciousness, or what self-awareness is.
Um, and, uh, do you have to have consciousness and self-awareness, or can you have one without the other?
Can you be, um, can you have the phenomenology of experience without a self?
Um, I, and, and, and, and I, I like that, uh, that question.
It's like, well, you know, what is this, what is the self if not, um, at the very least, some sort of, uh, if, if, if the brain at the root is, is sort of, um, so I, I like the, the, there's a talk, a TED talk,
where a neuroscientist talks about the brain is for movement, because animals have highly coordinated movement.
They walk around, and they, they, uh, they get food, and they get shelter, and they reproduce.
Uh, trees have movement, plants have movement, but it's not highly coordinated movement, and that's the distinction we'll make from between.
Um, uh, trees can grow toward, uh, plants can grow towards the sunlight, for example.
Uh, but for a tree to be able to get up and walk around, it's gonna need, um, uh, oh, it's gonna need a, a nervous, a nervous system, and a, and a brain.
And, uh, well, it's, I mean, it's, there's, there's different, it's gonna need, it's gonna need something more than what it has.
It's gonna need, um, at least, uh, the, the most primitive type of brain.
And, uh, so we can look at evolution, and we can see, well, what is, what is the, uh, you know, there's the, there's the spinal cord, the brain stem.
Um, the, the, the brain is this, uh, there's, there's a good book, there's great books about evolution, but, but really what, what I want to just sort of focus on is, at this moment is, is that, um, in the context of the brain is for highly coordinated movements.
Then, at the minimum, the self, uh, could be thought of as, uh, as a, as a, as a directional concept.
As in, um, you can, you can move forward, and that's forward, you can move backwards, or you can stand still where the self is.
And the self is that directional concept of this is this sort of point that's always, uh, there, it's always consistent.
It's always the observer point, right?
That's the, the observer point is where, um, it's the one thing, it's like, okay, so you can change rooms, but you're always there in every room.
Um, because, the self is this directional concept that is separate from the environment.
It's the direction of you, in the context of movement.
And that's why I use, actually, the term, uh, direction.
It's a direction that's not any other direction.
It's not, the, it's not left to right, it's not rotating, it's not, it's that one sort of direction that,
doesn't change.
And that's the, that is the most primitive, I think, uh, version of the self.
And then, when, then we get more complex self, it's like, okay, well, what are, what are the, uh, properties of this, uh, direction object?
Uh, this directional concept.
This directional concept of an object that is a direction in space, in space-time, relative to other things.
And so, what are the properties of that?
Well, there could be, well, this self comes with arms, this self comes with legs.
At some point, at some point, you know, maybe, um, uh, an organism become, becomes aware of its reflection in the water.
And it becomes, and, or maybe the hands go up and they, and they touch, and they touch the, the face.
And, um, and maybe the organism is, is becoming aware of the similarities between itself and other, and other entities or, or, or animals or, or beings that are also moving around in the environment.
So, there's, there's definitely distinctions being made between, okay, there's, there's the self, which is a direction, and then there's the, the space around the self, which is the context that changes.
And then, and then, but the self is, the self is, you know, I don't want to say the self is not changing.
The self is, is also impermanent.
It's also changing.
But it's changing at a different rate.
Um, it's changing, you know, at the cellular level, um, in, in ways that are, uh, very slow.
So, but also, like, there's a lot of, but also, they, they can, there's, there's a lot of simultaneous changes happening, um, that, that can cause, like, you know, eventually, like, there's these major shifts in, in a creature's lifespan.
And, and, and, and, and that can be noticed, that the brain can track.
And, uh, so there's definitely, like, all, all of the, the, the, the biology of cells that are, are talking to one another, um, are, it's, it's this massive, uh, massively parallel computation, biology is.
And, and, and the, and the, and the, and the, the, um, I think the computation at the root, um, even though we have DNA, even though we have, like, DNA is this chain of, of nucleotides that encodes how proteins are folded, it's, it's, it's, the, it's, the, DNA by itself doesn't do anything.
It's the, it's the proteins that are the first actors of the body, and then, uh, and then, uh, and then, and then beyond the cells, we have organs, and, and, uh, and then we have major, major parts.
We have our, um, our arms working in coordination with our brains, working in coordination with our feet, and we have our whole being.
So there's multiple scales of, of, of actions happening.
There's multiple scales, and this is an important concept, because, um, you know, people like to say, well, um, the physics of atoms is really, you know, it, it, it, if we could reduce the causality of human decision to basically, you know, the physical forces of atoms.
Well, that's, that, that's, there's, there's, there's, there's, then, then, then, then, in argument is, then what is choice, then, if, if, if the physics of atoms is really determined and everything that's happening.
But it's not, it's not, it's not, I think, I think that you have to, um, say, well, new functionality is emerging with, uh, higher, higher order structures that have, uh, causative patterns that don't exist at the atomic scale.
Um, um, um, native, and, and, and, but they, but they, but they're, they're given to that, they're, they're given once you have the higher order structure emerging.
So there's the, you know, the, the, the organization and function of, of the foot, or heart, heart beating.
Um, that has causal functions in, in space at a higher level that can, that, that, that, that's, it's, it's interdependent with atomic processes, but there is a level of causality at a higher level, at every level.
And so we're nested in different levels of cause, causality from micro to, to macro and, and, and meso in between.
Uh, and, and, uh, and maybe there's a hundred, uh, billion different mesos in between, although I wouldn't want to have to be the person to, to, uh, maybe future generations can outline all the, the, uh, the mesos in, in, in between the, the macro and, and micro scales of causation.
I mean, at some point you could say, well, the, a macro scale of causation is, um, is, is the whole human being in, in, in the micro scale.
Uh, causation is the protein, which is sort of what I'm saying.
But, um, but we can, we can say, okay, well, actually there's, there are forces of causation that are bigger than humans, such as, uh, gravity.
Um, the shape of space, time.
Um, that are, that, that are imposing their own sort of causation on, on, on lower forces that, uh, are, are driving the micro arrangement of atoms.
And so, at a higher, even higher level, there's the, there are the cosmic forces of, of the galaxy that are sort of very, like, I, I, I would say that, you know, you, we barely feel the effects of gravity.
Um, because they're so, because it's such a, such a large scale, um, thing.
I mean, I, you, we feel it every day in terms of, like, your feet don't lose the ground.
So, we, we do feel gravity in a profound way.
Um, so, I just contradicted myself, but, uh, but, I mean, what I'm saying is that, like, as much as we feel gravity, like, that is the curvature of space, I think that, I'm curious, I'm curious, I'm actually more curious, because astrophysics is not my, astrophysics is really interesting.
It's not my first alternate process.
Okay, so, um, just, uh, to get back, I, I, I, I really think that, um, maybe a good analogy for this book is, okay, here's all the puzzle pieces, that, um, when you add up all the puzzle pieces, is, I'm going to, like, sort of walk through, I want to walk through a journey of my life, sort of, like, describe all the puzzle pieces.
And then I want to begin to connect how these puzzle pieces fit together.
And, and, so, in a way, one of the things that I need to do is, um, to actually make a collection of puzzle pieces.
And I collected a ton of puzzle pieces.
And I shared them in my, uh, Facebook pages and, and Facebook groups.
These are articles and links to books and, and, uh, videos.
And, um, so, the, the sort of, like, references to my journey are sort of, like, all over the internet, in terms of what I've shared online and social media.
And, uh, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I
