=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0191y Oscillations Sequences Physics
First recorded: 2021-09-17T19:08:42.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/f70f5966-27ec-4bec-a4e0-21b93751f409
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Okay, so the oscillations that I'm experiencing, I mean, the oscillations are giving me my sense of space, my sense of balance, my sense of spaces around me.
And there, like, when I look around any room or any place, indoors or outdoors, what I'm seeing is a large sense of space, a sense of large structures, a sense of a geometry to the world around me.
And this feeling that I have both extends, like, extends my sense of self into that geometry, as if I'm the sort of, like, mystical presence here in this space.
But I'm not, like, as if I'm just this floating energy, right? I'm a floating energy here.
And, um, but what I'm arguing is that my oscillations, my brain oscillations, are creating that, those large, the large structural sense of space, the large geometry, the large sense of geometry, the sense of a self within a geometry, the sense of a self as part of a geometry, as almost like a vibration, like a drumming vibration, within another larger vibrating space.
And, um, it is kind of interesting that reality might be procedurally generated at each, for each, like, sort of dissipative system.
Like, because that's, because if you break it down into physics, like, a human being, Ryle Prigogine, is a dissipative system, it's like a vortex at the root level, just isomorphic to a hurricane, uh, or a galaxy, or an atom, right?
That's a human, that's, an organism is a dissipative system. Everything that has a, uh, an organized, a self-organizing structure is a dissipative system.
So, but what's interesting is like, well, now, wait a second, well, what about machines? What are they? Because they're not grown naturally, but they're, they're collisions resulting from dissipative systems, I guess.
Because, because, because, in a sense that we're colliding together atoms in order to make these machines, uh, and, so that's just like the, the, the physics of that situation is, is, um, it's still the same, but it's interesting to say, you know, at some point, um, you know, it's, it's interesting to say, well, does information drive physics?
Or does physics drive information? And they are two sides of the same point. Information is, um, how physics works. It works according to the, you know, principles encoded in, in it.
It works a certain way.
Alright. And, uh, the results of how it works are just really amazing. I guess. Or, or not. Depending on your perspective.
Let me pause this.
Because it knows, um, exactly which pieces together and which temporal order, so there's a spatial order of firing, and there's a temporal order of firing, and there's a spatial temporal order of firing, basically, like four-dimensional firing in a four-dimensional matrix, right?
And, and, so, what's happening is that, um, the whole program, the whole, like, yeah, the whole program, or the whole machine, the whole brain, is listening to the incoming patterns, and learning the sequences of them.
Learning the, their firing sequences. So it's learning longer and longer sequences.
And, and, what you can appreciate is that the people who have, like, incredibly long sequences, uh, you know, are putting together huge amounts of information.
So there's, like, but basically, yeah, like, so then there's books, right?
So, so there's people who, like, you know, they write tweets, there's people who write articles, there's people who write books, and then there's people who, like, you know, like, I guess they're,
they're creating content every day they're just like they're just putting
themselves out there okay
