=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0201y Eyeballs brains tempo-spatial-phasic Nerves
First recorded: 2021-08-19T08:03:57.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/7038ba64-423a-4230-b5fb-8ccb3543440e
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Let's talk about how eyeballs are part of the brain, and that researchers were surprised that eyeballs grew out of the brain.
But the thing is, they wouldn't be surprised if they realized in the first place that the eyeball is part of the brain.
Like you have, going between the thalamus and the eyes, there's an optic nerve, right?
That optic nerve ends at the eyeballs, and it connects to the thalamus.
Do you see what I'm saying?
Like, if you have any model of the brain, a picture of the brain that doesn't include the eyeballs, you are like, you're sending the optic nerve off into nothing.
So if you don't have eyeballs, what does your optic nerve connect to in the brain?
Okay?
How many pictures of brains have you seen with no eyeballs?
Okay?
But these researchers are surprised that eyeballs appeared.
Because there has been a sort of like, it's like, it's like the map has left something off.
It left that off.
It left off, they say, okay, this is the human brain, here's the thalamus, here's the primary sensory cortices, here's the occipital lobes, the parietal lobes, the frontal lobes, the prefrontal cortex.
The different parts of the brain, the brain cannot be fully formed without the eyeballs.
The eyeballs are not an accessory.
It's part of the brain.
If you don't have eyeballs, then you have an optic nerve that's connecting to nothing.
That's like a free, that's like, it's like, um, I don't know, that's like drawing, that's like drawing a person without hands.
You just, you need to have, you just like, you know what happens if a person doesn't have hands?
Their blood falls out of them.
Um, their blood falls out.
It's just gonna spill out if they don't have hands.
Where's the blood gonna stop?
You can't have a brain without eyeballs.
This has been overlooked.
Something else is, in, in books, like computational neuroscience books, um, you know, you can talk about, on intelligence, it's a great book, it's a wonderful book.
Okay?
And they talk about how the brain has temporal, spatial patterns.
But specifically, specifically, it's temporal, spatial, and phasic patterns.
It's not temporal, it's not only temporal and spatial, it's, it's not spatial-temporal.
It's temporal, it's spatial-temporal, and phasic.
It's all three.
If you leave out phasic, it's like leaving out eyeballs.
Tempo, spatial, what?
Phasic patterns.
Tempo, spatial, and phasic patterns.
The phasic patterns are frequencies.
Hertz.
Two hertz.
Six hundred hertz.
Tempo, spatial, phasic.
Brains with eyeballs.
Because it's part of the brain.
You cannot have a brain that doesn't have...
Well, in fact, you can, you can have, you could have a malformed brain that has no eyeballs.
You could.
You could have a person born without hands, too.
But you're not considering the whole system, and understanding the whole system, if you're
not including eyeballs.
Because eyeballs have nerve cells in them, they have brain cells in them, they have ganglia
neurons, and other kinds of, other types of neurons, and glial cells.
It is a serious part of the brain.
It should not be a surprise to any neuroscientist.
At all.
That, um, that, that when you grow a brain in a laboratory, eyeballs are gonna appear on it.
