=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0212y Hierarchy Oscillations Mind Map
First recorded: 2021-08-10T22:34:35.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/5f9743f1-0d0b-4c4f-b1c0-8256ee2ce3d2
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
I was just thinking that another way to frame it is just to say that there's a Hertz rendering. The consciousness is a Hertz rendering. It might help you at first to think of a volumetric video, but that's not what it is.
But that might help you to sort of like think about how the computer, how, with volumetric video, a computer has to account for filling in a 3D space, has to render a 3D space.
But it has, but it also, but for the screen, to the screen, it has to render one perspective of the 3D space. Right.
And, um, I'm just, I'm just making the argument that the new rendering is a solitone wave.
Uh, it's, uh, Hertz, it's a coincidence pattern expressed in Hertz as a solitone wave in, uh, it's, it has, um, you know, there's an associated voltage, there's an associated electromagnetism with it.
And, uh, so its properties are produced by the brain and read by the brain.
Produced by the brain, read by the brain.
And so consciousness is a, is a Hertz rendering, produced by the brain and read by the brain.
But it's, but specifically, the brain is oscillating in between rendering and observing.
It oscillates between rendering and observing.
That's what the oscillations are.
They're oscillating, they're, they're doing, like, timing to, to oscillate between rendering and observing.
But, what they're observing, not, what the oscillation is reading, is the, um, is the differential between the neurons in a, in a column that fired, and the, uh, and the ones that did not.
And the ones that are predicting they're going to fire, and the ones that are predicting they're not.
And that is part of how the sequence of the rendering is, is, is determined to produce the, the, the program of reality.
Okay.
So, welcome back.
Um, so I had a really colorful idea.
I thought, well, what if I create a really colorful template in, uh, the mind map tool, right?
Um, um, basically, that's, like, um, so going to, like, so you know how, like, yeah, I've been messing around creating my own templates.
And, um, what I'm thinking is, like, making a really colorful one that's, like, several rows down.
So, you start at the top, and then you make a second layer and a third layer.
Okay.
And then, on the third layer, it's so densely packed, because the first layer, there's, like, three.
And then there's three for every three.
And then there's three for every three, again.
So, it's actually the fourth layer, but there's, like, so now you've got a lot of different nodes at the fourth, uh, fourth level.
And so, um, what I'm suggesting is that we start there at a lower level of abstraction.
And the reason why is I don't necessarily, is I want to, I want to sort of build the higher level of abstraction in reverse, which is interesting.
It's, like, yeah, well, what if I start on something that's, like, lower level, and then build in, or build upwards, to, like, figure out, okay, because, yeah, it's an exercise.
Right, let's put, let's, let's create the SDR, and then we'll create the higher level representation.
And I'll sort of, like, I think that, yeah, that might fit if there is, sort of, hierarchical construction with my brain happening.
Um, and, you know, maybe I need to talk it out, okay?
Right, so I'm engaging in a feedback loop.
Get a mirror.
We'll enhance the feedback loop.
We'll get some brainwave entrainment.
I want to get the colorful graphics.
I want to put it in front of me.
I want to start creating, like, a really colorful hierarchy for, but here's the thing.
Um, I think I want to combine, I think what I want to do is, like, create a screenshot, and then add it to simple notes.
So, I mean, add it to the notes, notes, uh, the notepad.
So, a screenshot of the mind map.
Because I think that's what I need to do is to represent the associated concepts from a branch's aspect, and then put it in a sequence.
Right, so it's like using, that's like, that's using a mind map in an unconventional way.
Because then it's like, you're combining the branch, the branching is just designed to show a relationship between two different ideas.
A relationship that is, in some sense, um, shares some minimum of isomorphism in terms of a natural hierarchy with some other concepts.
So, if two concepts are both at the same level of a hierarchy, they can be both be children, but the point of making them is that they are distinct, they are also distinctions relative to one another.
Like, they're not, it's not the same thing twice.
So, the reason that there's multiple children is each one is taking a different sort of, um, is doing at least one thing that's different.
In terms of, uh, in terms of, uh, its properties, and that's why it needs to be included in this categorization.
Because, this, this sort of, like, a mind map tool is about arranging categories in a hierarchy.
And it's interesting, because category theory doesn't have any hierarchy.
But, like, yeah, if you could show, if you could have transformations in a hierarchy, then you could have, like, system, would be at the top of the hierarchy, and then you could have, um, you could have, uh, components underneath system, and then you have entities, um, and then you have the, then you have the, the, the, the document, right?
And maybe I should do that.
I should make a mind map where I have, like, the highest level is the system code that applies to the whole hierarchy, and then the component code, which means that you have some code that only applies to some of the project.
And what it applies to, those are the things that it applies to, but you can assign, but you would assign what it applies to, um, not at the component level, but at the entity level.
And that's the point of entities, it's sort of be, like, a general target for what the HTML page is supposed to render, and what the components are supposed to write to.
Um, so, yeah, it's, like, this is your, this is your hook into existence, is the, that's what the entity is, it's your, that, that's, um, you're hooking into the print, right?
So you can change the print.
And so the entity represents the vague abstraction of what you are printing.
Yeah.
What is the summary?
Uh, uh, uh, brain function.
Oh, shit.
Goddamn.
It's like a 3D hertz, and, um, so that's what we are, uh, needing to describe, to create and access.
And so, um, that's sort of, like, yeah, that's sort of, like, the high-level summary.
And then what I will have is, like, branches into all the areas that sort of describe the low-level pieces that make up the bigger picture.
So, um, so that means almost, like, yeah, so the mind map is, like, okay, so start with that summary.
So these are all the low-level pieces that connect to this bigger picture.
And that's what the book is about, is the book is, okay, so this is the hypothesis, and then these are the pieces that add up to this hypothesis.
And so I'm just going to list all of these pieces one by one and explain why they fit this hypothesis.
And I'm going to go through the audio to listen to the different, um, sort of, uh, arguments that people have brought up, sort of argue, uh, and then I'll have answers for those.
Like, I sort of, like, frequently ask questions, and maybe move that to the index, right?
Um, so, yeah, so let's keep, let's keep going.
I think I want to dive back into the oscillations today.
Okay, so let's put on the headphones, we'll listen to oscillations, we'll take notes.
Thanks.
