=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0213y Brain Tentacle Receptors
First recorded: 2021-08-10T10:47:15.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/22ef7900-a3d4-4b5f-a73a-32c44566429d
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
It's interesting to think about. What if each arm of the octopus had its own identity? As if each octopus tentacle with its own brain, each octopus tentacle has its own brain. It's like an animal with a distributed brain system.
But what if each tentacle has its own identity, its own sense of self as I am this animal? But it's like I am this animal, but I'm also like, but I am only one of this animal.
Like, that would be like, as if each of your fingers had their own sense of self, right? Like, if each of your fingers had their own sense of self.
Like, I am Micah's thumb. I am Micah's index finger. I am Micah's middle finger. I am Micah's ring finger. I am Micah's pinky, right?
Like, this is five, this is five of me in each hand. And they're all, like, alive and doing things. Now, there isn't, there isn't, unfortunately, a brain in each of my fingers.
But for the octopus, there is. Each of its tentacles has a brain in it. And so, the question is, yeah, is it a distributed mind?
That is networked as one mind? Or does it function like there's a separate animal in each tentacle? Does each tentacle operate as its own animal?
I mean, you can see that when the tentacle is separated, that it tries to feed itself. The tentacle becomes separated. It tries to feed, it tries to put food where the, where the body used to be.
But it doesn't know, it doesn't, it doesn't, it's not able to do anything beyond that. Like, that's the limitation, because it's just a tentacle floating in the water.
The only thing it can try to do is try to put food back into where the body used to be. That's the, that's the sort of limit. So it's, it's, it doesn't seem like, uh, it's distributed, but it seems like maybe, uh, it doesn't really have its own sense of direction.
It doesn't, and, and unfortunately, it doesn't continue to live after separating from the octopus. That'd be great if it, like, grew another head, right?
And more legs, more, more tentacles, I mean. That'd be awesome. Uh, unfortunately. That doesn't seem to be the, uh, system.
But then people ask about, well, what about the enteric brain, or the brain in the gut, or the enteric, yeah, the enteric system. It's, has a lot of neurons.
Um, I say, is, is, is, is there, is there any kind of, like, sensory processing happening down there? Any sort of thought, or thinking?
Is that, is that, um, is that, um, a conscious being down there in the gut? Is it, is it like another animal, like another tentacle? Um, is my gut a person also?
But what kind of person? Without eyes, right? It doesn't have access to my eyes. It doesn't need eyes.
It doesn't need any relationship with anybody. It's, uh, it's, it's, it's, it's, can just be, you know, maybe it's, it's, it's, uh, it's a bit more like a computer, and doesn't have awareness.
I think we could figure out if it has awareness or not. Let me think. Um, are the neurons, we'd have to see, okay, so,
if there are neurons down there, what are they doing there? I guess they're going to be learning patterns.
That's interesting. What if your enteric brain could speak? What would it say? Why would it say anything?
What if we could talk to the enteric brain to learn about your health? Extend your life? Oh, that's amazing.
It seems that what scientists can now say, from looking at the, um, the impacts of the vaccine on the virus, including data with the Delta virus,
is that, um, those groups of people who do not consume the vaccine for whatever reason will perish in greater numbers than people who did consume the vaccine for whatever reason.
Um, um, if you didn't, if you're in a group of people who didn't, uh, take the vaccine and you catch the virus,
your odds are worse, you're more likely to suffer, and you're more likely to perish.
But you're also more likely to have, um, uh, what's called long COVID.
And, uh, that's like even after the virus passes, uh, from your body that you continue to have, uh, bad symptoms, uh, for a long time.
Um, and they could do, they could be new symptoms.
You could develop symptoms after people have reported, you know, after some months of recovering from COVID that they developed really bad symptoms.
In a way, I think of, I think of, I think of what's happening to your body is similar as, it's like, um, a lot of oxidative stress, a lot of, with long COVID,
I think that what's happening is a lot of oxidative stress, and a lot of, um, inflammation is prematurely aging people,
and whatever diseases they were developing, it accelerated.
Like, if there was a disease that you were slowly developing that would have killed you by the time you were 60, um, it's been, like, the timeline has been accelerated.
In some cases, uh, you know, with the, that, that also, that data, that idea fits with, like, what we saw when COVID-19 first appeared on the, on the, on the scene,
and we still see to this day, was that, uh, there's a lot of comorbidities, a lot of deaths are related to comorbidities,
which means that the patient died of more than one disease at the same time, uh, specifically at least COVID-19.
In this case, we're talking about the, the, you know, the patient dying of, of something like heart disease, or cancer, stroke,
uh, maybe even passing away from Alzheimer's, or any number of diseases, but also passing away with COVID-19,
with a COVID-19 infection at the same time.
Um, and that fits with the idea that, hey, this is, um, this is, this is, uh, promoting the, the factors that actually age us,
which is, um, a lot of oxidative stress, or, it's, it's either, it's either oxidative stress,
or it's mimicking oxidative stress enough to be the equivalent of oxidative stress.
It's oxidative stress, right?
By, by, but, it, an unconventional, an unconventional form of oxidative stress, I guess.
And, um, it's, uh, it's inflammation.
This is what the virus does.
It attaches, uh, to the ACE2 receptors.
And those, those receptors are all throughout your endothelial, uh,
uh, the endothelial lining of your cells, of your blood vessels.
Um, and, uh, including, uh, some, some glia cells, uh, in the human brain.
And, um, so, there's a, there's a lot of opportunity for, for cells that have a lot of ACE2 receptors
to, to receive, uh, an extreme amount of damage.
And that releases, uh, the, the damage to cells, of course, can release fluid into your,
neurons in one, in, at least one, in, in, in, in, in, one manifestation of, of, of, of potential outcomes.
Uh, at least one, uh, potential outcome is, is that it, it causes, uh, you know, um, people
to, um, have really, have a lot of trouble breathing and a lot of trouble, like, um, with,
with, uh, with oxygen.
Um, and it can cause the lungs to fill, fill up with fluid.
That's another thing.
Um, but that's not all.
I mean, it can cause heart attack and stroke because at the core of it, like, you know,
it is about, it, this virus is, because, um, it's so powerful, it's just like, um, it's just like, um,
a blender that chops up your, your ACE2 receptors.
But they, ACE2 receptors have to balance out your ACE1 receptors.
The two types of receptors do opposite things.
The ACE2 receptors, uh, they dilate, they dilate your, your, your blood vessels.
And the ACE1 receptors, they constrict your blood vessels.
And so, the, and so, if they're not balanced out, then you're gonna have, you're gonna have
too much ACE1 and it's too much constriction.
And so, there's too much constriction to your blood vessels that are getting tighter
with COVID-19.
They're getting, and it's like, it's like, um, this is sort of, like, parallel to what
happens when you age.
When you age, your blood vessels are getting tighter.
Right?
So, now you understand, it's making your blood vessels tighter in a long-term way by
showering them with inflammation and destruction in the form of oxidative stress.
There's a lot of, um, there's a lot of particles flying around because it's literally destroying
cells, so the debris, your, your, your body's being hit with debris.
It's like a, it's like a Star Wars battlefield.
Ships are being destroyed and ships are flying into other ships.
Um, Star Wars or Star Trek battlefields where there's lots of ships in space and are all
shooting each other.
That's sort of, and like, there's debris, and, and, and that means that broken ships
are hitting other ships, and so some ships are going to be destroyed by other ships.
It's just, um, it's like a war zone.
Right?
And that war zone is, is targeting, is fucking up the angiotensin system, which is, you know,
the angiotensin system is the ACE1 and ACE2 receptors balancing each other out.
Okay?
So, that's causing your, your, your blood vessels to get constricted, which is the same thing
that happens when you, you know, your blood vessels are getting tight.
That, that's a biomarker of aging.
They're getting constricted.
Yeah, that's, that's, that's a symptom of aging.
Right?
That's, that's, that's, that's, I mean, that's an association of, with aging, is, is that there's
just too much, too much stress, and too much oxidative stress, and too much, um, inflammation
for the body to handle anymore.
It's been fighting for years.
And it's, it's gradually, your body's gradually losing the battle.
That's, that's why we all, that's why we all, uh, keel over, in the end.
If we lose the battle against entropy, our bodies do.
And, um, so, I mean, maybe there are going to be some smart strategies, and one of the
things I wanted to talk about was, you know, what if we could talk, you know, create two-way
communication between a computer and the enteric brain in your gut, okay?
With, with, with Neuralink.
What if we, what if we plug Neuralink into your, into the, the brain that's in your gut,
and, um, and we connected that to the computer, and, and, uh, we began to, um, to, uh, to,
what I want to do is, I want to, I want to connect the gut and the brain together, so there
can be, like, some, I don't know, I, I mean, in a, in a neat way, not in a gross way.
I mean, I'm thinking maybe, um, we could visualize what the gut is doing on a computer.
And so, in that, in that way, we're connecting the, the, the brain to the gut, I guess, because
you can watch the, the 3D visualization of what the gut is doing.
And, and maybe, maybe your gut, like, I mean, I sense, you know, like, like, um, sometimes
I sense, oh, I'm, I'm full, or, oh, I'm hungry.
And maybe there's a lot more that I can become, a lot more feelings that my gut is making that
I can become conscious of as being from my gut if I begin to visualize its, its activity
in 3D.
And this could be the, this could be part of the future of medicine where we are basically
not just, like, thinking about connecting computers to our brains, or to our, um, to our limbs,
but also, you know, we're thinking about, um, connecting the computers to novel areas of
the body that haven't, um, been, um, thought of in the same, sort of, with the same focus.
I guess we can, I guess we can broaden our focus with, um, with the democratization of
neural, of neural link and neural gaze, neural link, um, neural lace and nerve gear technology
with the democratization of next generation brain computer interface and brain machine
interface, uh, technologies.
Um, they can be, that means that, like, anyone can make them and, and, and, uh, perhaps they
can be mass produced at an inexpensive price.
And, uh, science can be open and everyone can learn and, and, um, and we can, and, you
know, and hopefully we can figure out, um, how to, how to fix the big problems in the world.
I think that a lot of the, um, I'm learning, I'm learning a lot about, you know, how, uh,
text is, uh, difficult and we need to listen to people to sync with their, to sync for, so
that my mind can sync with your mind so that we can feel normal about other people.
Um, and, um, and, um, and so hearing, I think hearing people actually speak, um, so you
can tune in and engage, um, and, and speaking to them, like, to, like, having conversations.
Syncing is about conversations.
You know, I believe it's, um, it's a parallel to what, to, um, the fact that, that it's,
it's, it's, it allows us to extend, basically, our, our thought process, um, when you connect
two people together, their thought process and your process, um, can, can align, but that's
only, I think it's only possible, like, I find, like, if I look back, that basically all
the relationships that fell apart, what they all had in common was, I think, that we were
relying too much on, on using, uh, text as the primary way to communicate, and, um, the
relationships that didn't fall apart, like, it's, it's because we made more of an effort
to talk to each other so that our brains could actually sync.
Like, um, the text-based communication just made us, uh, in some cases it makes us
people more suspicious of one another, and, and because, because your brain is not syncing
with that person, you're just getting these abstract bits of information, and it's, it's,
it's kind of, uh, disconnected from reality, it, it's, it disconnects you from reality, and
so, you start to feel weird about the other person if you're only, if you're only talking
to them with text.
But if you're talking to them with voice, and you're syncing with them, um, then, uh, you
can feel normal, then you can feel normal about them, and they can feel normal about you, and
I think this is an essential part to how, uh, speaking and connecting with people and syncing
with them is an essential part to, to solving some of the problems that the world, um, uh,
faces, and, um, this is about, um, this is about, um, making it possible, this is, this is about,
I mean, there, there's part of it, I think that's part of it, I think it's not just talking,
I mean, I think that you have to, uh, people have to get over their egos to some extent,
they have to realize that, you know, the ego is, is everywhere, you know, in a way, I
mean, they have to, like, imagine that, that it's everywhere, to sort of, like, help their
minds to, to, to, um, uh, to find it, you have to imagine that it's everywhere, to help
your mind find the ego, so you can, you can, you can, uh, you can understand it, understand
and face it, and know it, know what it is, um, it's, you know, it's the thing that's,
that's, um, it's everyone and no one, right, it's everyone and no one, um, it's kind of like,
um, and it's also, it's also, you know, someone, it's everyone, it's no one, it's someone,
it's all ego, and I, I don't know how to, I don't know how to say this, but, you know,
um, but your hand is a dendrite, your hand is a type of dendrite in a way, that, the, the,
the parts that the fingers are connected to is the soma, and the fingers themselves are
the dendritic branches, right, and then the long arm is, um, is, uh, the axon, it's just,
uh, humor, but I think that's an interesting metaphor, like, your hand is basically the fractal
of a dendrite, basically.
