=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0210y Brain Computer Technology
First recorded: 2021-08-11T03:49:38.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/0326be56-74d1-4167-bfa1-7b64a11b6041
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Their internal cognitions remain the same. So that might be just behavioral or brain space. I don't know what to call that, but that would be a certain difference in that computation ability or function.
If I may add, I just want, I have two scenarios in my head. For example, one, we are talking about how neurodivergent people would have access to Neuralink, but at the same time, you know, the people who can afford it, like people who are not necessarily neurodivergent, who just have a lot of money, who would afford that technology would also have it.
So I don't think this in itself is clearing any kind of inequity. It is definitely not necessarily a step towards equity, but that being said, I have two scenarios in my head out of curiosity.
For example, let's say I am projecting, this kind of feels that, and in a very humorous way, I'm going to place it, like if everyone here has watched the movie Invention of Life, so in that essence, imagine once we know how to use this technology.
Now people would not just be projecting what they're naturally thinking, but they would also be projecting what they're imagining, and it will give access to another kind of, how do I say, atmosphere altogether.
Currently, we're dealing with whatever we can project in reality, using our limited senses, but tomorrow it will be massive.
So some would have access to this technology, and some always would not. So how would we deal with that kind of disparity, is another question from a sociological perspective.
Was my question not clear?
Yeah, I think it's clear. I think that people that can't afford it will be probably the lucky ones, as I think that people can't afford to get overdiagnosed during childhood with all kinds of mental health disorders and getting prescriptions that screws up their brain for life are the lucky ones.
So money can't afford it. So money can't afford to buy you quality of life all the time, although I agree, if we think about adding more skills, there will be for sure a disparity.
The problem is, though, if you add another sensor, and you get another sense of hearing ultrasound or something like that, that's another skill.
I don't know how useful, I don't know how useful it is. And the other concern that I share from the young people is that by using all these devices, and we are kind of, our thought process and our logic and how we solve problems is actually simplifying,
simplifying because we are synchronizing in a way, and our brains, as we are right now in this room, and we have actually, we will have less flexibility and skills because we also adapt to the tools we use.
If everyone starts now coding, and everyone uses the same language, our diversity around the world about brain structures and skills and languages, the diversity of knowledge will just decrease and decrease.
So, I'm not sure if it's actually enriching or not. You know, Miguel and Nicolelis and Ronald, they think the opposite, and I kind of share that, because real experiences be in the real world, and I don't think you can get the same, I mean, get the same experiences in just individual worlds, and vice versa.
So, I don't know if it's actually, I don't know if it will be a luxury or actually kind of, you know, in some form.
Interesting, Katarina, thank you. Would anyone else want to take it?
I'm going to ask you out of curiosity, Michael. Go ahead.
I know that there's a lot of different brain-computer interface technologies in the works that are designed to democratize the technology and make it vastly cheaper than, with the cost of, you know, like an MRI, medical image,
which costs today. And one of those projects is called Open EIT, Open Electrical Impedance Tomography, and for a few hundred dollars, they're trying to bring something that can, when combined with deep learning, approximate medical imaging that could be as useful in some cases for some kinds of scans as MRI.
And so, I don't believe that it's actually going to be an issue. I think that the difference between, I think, you know, if there's, if people need to purchase a medical imaging product or a brain-computer interface product to interface with a computer, it will be possible, just like buying a cell phone.
And the technology will be democratized to be affordable, as affordable as a phone, I think. That's my, I mean, within like maybe 20 years, I think.
Like, but I wanted to say that because, you know, the real, I think the real driving difference between those who are able to connect their brains to, like imagine if you connect your brain to the computer and that it's, it's similar to having like an entire, it's like being the boss of an entire nation where you can like, you can, you can ask the government to, you can create programs for, for an entire government's worth of artificial people to, to work on.
And, and, and, and so you have this like tremendous power. It's like now you're the head of a nation state when you plug into Neuralink and you say, well, what about those, what about the disparity between those people who want, who want to be all natural?
They don't have as much, they don't have as much, they're not getting as much done. I think that it's just, well, that was their choice and that is their choice. And that's how I think, you know, that's, yeah, but, but I mean, but, but, uh, you know, there might be like, you know, the ability to just talk to a computer instead of plugging in a brain computer interface and ask nations of AI to help you with tasks.
And if they, if they, um, that's another way to go about it. So, I mean, I don't know that you have to have a brain computer interface to take advantage of vast computational resources.
I'm just simply saying, for example, uh, acquiring these technologies would also be a process of evolution, right? Like only a few would be able to afford it initially, then more, then more, and then Indian probably the entire process when it's marketed well, like any other product.
So my question was just simply out of curiosity, because I think humanity repeating itself is better technology. And at first, some would have access and some would not, and that is just with any other product as well.
So my curiosity was, how do you ensure sociological impact of any new product that is introduced? That's all I was curious about.
But you know, what did worry, and I know I keep bringing it back to the sociology aspect of it.
I'd like to comment again on the side effects, you know, that this would do if it's used massively, but I would just like to,
look at network effectors are so big and how so expensive. And because of more slow, how people are using, you know, our mobiles now that even poor people, of course, also have mobiles now.
And who could imagine that only in a few years, people would have access to this particular kind of technology in about like maybe 10 to 15 years before you would imagine that even a cell phone that's being used personally or even by businesses, it's like, you know, so big.
And to stretch it out before that, a computer is like, you know, how many buildings and how much does it cost?
But now it is in your phone and we're using it in Clubhouse with a better capacity than the ones that they had before.
And to democratize it, we have Android at a cheaper scale where there is a massive use of such by people.
So probably, I think because of network effect, if more people are using such a certain kind of technology, it becomes cheaper.
And also because there is much production of the parts, it becomes more ubiquitous with the people.
I'm just speaking at the point of view of having this network effect because I just suddenly remembered how people will, you know, like even Bill Gates and Bill Joy who created Java,
they would sneak inside the building of this university who was having a computer because they would just like to use it more.
But can you imagine that it used to be several buildings and now it's in your pocket, it's in your phone, and it's more powerful.
That's what just I'm thinking on the futurist side.
Electronics that we call throw away also have like, you know, these chips in them that would have been impressive decades ago.
And now it's working its way up to our brains.
Jim, did you want to ask something?
Yeah, I just got on, so I haven't heard a lot of the conversation, but it's, for me, a very important one.
I've been a futurist for a whole lot of years, but I'm also a psychologist.
And one of the concerns that I have is that as we move into these incredible areas and Neuralink and all the rest of the things that are happening are giving us an incredible amount of control in the world.
And certainly on many levels, this is a very positive thing.
We as human beings are set in a dualistic system, though.
So we have the ability to move out and control, but we also have an internal ability to deepen our own experience.
And if everything is moving out into kind of the material world and to control, the danger is that the extremes of this are domination.
And we as human beings are in a position where if we get too outside of that balance between control and kind of our inner experience, it starts moving into a real scary kind of experience.
And we can see this in totalitarian cultures, we can see it in what happened with the Nazis.
And we really need to be able to stand back and look and say, what is this going to do on us as a species?
If we just look at the experiences and the various machines themselves, we miss the human experience, which is infinitely deeper than any kind of externalization that we can do.
I'll stop there.
Yeah, that's an interesting thought, especially because there's research that suggests that our habit of taking photographs has reduced our ability to retain visual memory as much.
And another thing that Eric mentioned early on was that how we all carry mobile phones today.
And we were already cyborgs because we don't leave anywhere on our mobile phones.
And the human attention span has dropped significantly.
One of the things as a psychologist that I've seen, particularly with younger people, is what would have been called dissociation from a sense of biological reality.
It's like we're becoming much more oriented towards our ideas and our fantasies.
And we're in some ways losing our bodies.
And I just, I don't know what is going to happen with this.
And it's a bit of both.
But if we don't stop and really reflect on what's happening as a species, I think we could find ourselves in some really difficult situations.
And to add to Abith, I love your point.
And it just reminded me, so I come from a literature background.
And I know initially, so literature students have a tendency to kind of look at everything with scrutiny and look at the impact of how difficult it all becomes reality.
So I remember, even though I think today what we're doing is we already are halfway through.
Let's do it the entire way and let us figure out everything because we're already halfway through.
We already have enough technology to aid us.
There are multiple crutches for people who need it.
But that being said, I would quote Mary Wollstonecraft when she wrote Time to Frankenstein.
And Time to Frankenstein's monster eventually becomes like a total being who doesn't understand what its purpose is.
So I obviously do sometimes think about what would be the purpose in the end.
Like if at all we're not, you know, resolving disparities, what is it that we're trying to achieve?
So that is my general perspective towards new technology.
Let's make it more clear, like if the objective is to, there must be an objective to everything that we're doing, right?
So what would be the main key objective if at all we're not solving disparities?
So I think one of the interesting applications of Neuralink, and I'm quoting a friend on Clubhouse on this,
is the fundamental role of technology is to bring the cost of something to as close to zero as possible.
So I think one of the reasons why we might look at cybernetic implants is to reduce the amount of energy required for the brain to perform certain tasks.
No, I'm not entirely sure what task those might be, but perhaps certain forms of reasoning or certain forms of communication.
If the technology could be adapted to reducing the cost that is incurred at the brain level,
I think that would be a potential application, a cost in terms of energy.
