=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0232y Plateau Potential Dendrite Potassium Calcium
First recorded: 2021-08-06T06:50:42.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/91ed1a89-e416-425a-9723-8a152f747b5e
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
They send out roots, these kind of basal dendrites, and then they have this big trunk that shoots up the, you know, the cell bodies are in layer 5 of the cortex, and then they shoot the trunk up, and then there's this big arborization of dendrites in layer 5 in terms of calcium.
What did you say? Calcium? You get calcium what?
So that's what they were talking about. What they were doing was reading out that.
So it sounded to me during that recording that the anesthesia was somehow inhibiting the action potential from happening.
But the action potential was being inhibited because the anesthesia was specifically acting on creating an inhibition between the soma and the other section, I guess, of the neuron.
I guess, I don't know, are we talking about, like, the dendritic arbor?
The dendritic arbor?
Yeah.
So if you, if you, so they're saying you put on anesthesia, and then those compartments are decoupled, so then you don't get that.
But what do they mean by coupled? Do they mean that they're oscillating together at the same frequency?
Or is that synapses that are?
I'm sorry, is the soma verse the same as the beginning of an action potential?
Or no?
So, yeah, you can have single spikes, right?
So that's just sodium in, potassium out.
And then you can get, and there's coding for spike rate.
And with single spikes, you can even code with timing.
But then there's, it's a very different type of behavior where the cell bursts very rapidly in a, you know, very small window of time.
There's sodium.
They call that burst.
There's sodium, and there's also the chloride action.
Yeah, chloride is a pretty small part of the, you know, the classic Hutchin and Huxley style action potential.
It usually plays in on, like, after the action potential, or where exactly the threshold ends up being for firing.
But it's, the big snap, the big spike is sodium in, desensitized, the sodium channels desensitize, and then you have this slower onset of potassium pushing out, which shuts down the spike.
That's, like, the main.
Okay, so, um, a big question I wanted to ask you was, um, how does the, let's say, let's say that you, um, uh, you show some, you show some, let's say that we could, we could watch the activity of, of a dendrite, you know, with a sensor that just doesn't exist yet, right?
Let's say we could really watch the dendrite while we showed somebody, like, one picture, and then we showed someone another picture.
And the, the point of this is that the dendrite is supposed to recognize a part of this picture.
Um, that's what, that's what, that's, that's the point of this experiment is, is we're going to put two pictures and there's, and the dendrite's going to recognize a pattern from this picture.
Um, and then it's going to, that's going to potentially result in, um, the, like,
uh, uh, change in the potassium.
It's going to result, result in, that's what I'm thinking is it's going to change the, it's going to change the potassium.
And the, the, the potassium is going to change the shape of the action potential.
And the shape of the action potential is going to change, um, the, the total quantity of neurotransmitters that, that flood the, the, uh, exit terminal.
Um, um, in, in terms of multiples, in terms of, uh, microtubule sacks.
Um, and so that's what I'm like, that's what I'm driving at.
Like, well, how, how is the dendritic recognizing a pattern that's going to change the, um, amount of potassium?
Because that, because I, I think, and, and I've talked to other people, I think that there's enough, there's research, uh, also that says that, you know, this is what, there is, there is some sort of, like, what's going to cause the change in the shape of the action potential may come down to how long the, um, the, the, to the duration of the action potential.
Like, when it's, like, when it's, when it's closed.
And if there's more, if there's more potassium concentration, then the dendrite might, um, close at a different time interval.
And that's going to change the amplitude or frequency, uh, uh, um, of the, of the action potential.
So, that, that's an idea.
Uh, I don't know what you think of that.
Um, yeah, so, like, if you change the rest, like, let's say you, you're injecting a current in.
So, one, one thing I meant to say earlier that might clarify some things.
The, some of the stuff I've been saying applies to really large cells, right?
So, if you have, like, a smaller distance-dependent compartmentalization that happens, it, it's a different type compartmentalization.
Yeah, you were talking about, what, pyramidal cells or what?
Yeah, exactly.
Pyramidal cells, the six-layer cells.
Yeah, I was, I was, I was, I was, I was, I was, I was, I was, I was talking about in the paper, too.
Yes, right.
The apical, apical, um, and basal compartments.
Yeah.
So, in a smaller cell, when the, when the, when the soma fires, the back propagating to all the synapses.
So, that's, you know, so it depends.
It's very cell-type dependent.
Um, but to what you're saying, so let's, let's just talk about a smaller cell like that.
Let's say you're applying current on synapses in a, in the, the branches.
Then you're certainly going to change what the resting, during the, during that stimulus, the, you're going to temporarily change the resting, uh, voltage for the, the soma.
Um, changing that voltage, which has consequences, um, for, you know, set points for the channels that are involved from desensitized.
So, sure, you could definitely end up controlling the shape or even, like, uh, the timing of when the spiking happens with, with synaptic inputs.
I think that's.
Yeah, I'm wondering how.
So, you could be affecting, uh, sodium.
You could be affecting, uh, thing.
Yep, but more specifically.
Channels could get affected.
And then, but potassium.
And then, relevant for plasticity is calcium.
And you certainly could be modifying the response of calcium channels.
Um, yeah, so the, that's right.
That's part of the hypothesis that I'm working on.
Um, but, I, but specifically potassium, like that, like, could you say more about how, like, theorize more, what, like, like, what, um, what's known in terms of, like, um, how a dendrite might, um,
how, how the, so a dendrite might receive a unique number of, of its, a unique, um, pattern of its, in its inputs may have been triggered by, um, by other cells.
And so, a dendrite has a unique pattern each time.
And, somehow those synapses on each of the branches of the dendrite are sending us, you know, a summary of what they're, whatever they're collecting.
They're sending a summary of whatever they're collecting that represents part of that pattern.
Um, and it's resulting, it, it is perhaps being transformed or resulting in some sort of change to the amount of sodium, some sort of change to the amount of potassium.
And, uh, and down the road, um, uh, change, you know, changes, you know, what, to the, to what the calcium receptors are, are doing.
Or, or how much, you know, what the calcium receptors are, are, I, I'm actually, I'm actually not sure what, what, what change is going to, it's going to make to the calcium receptors exactly.
Because this is a, this is a little bit of the gray area for me, like, where, how a synapse is going to increase or decrease the, the potassium, um, uh, delta.
The potassium, I'm not sure what the, the, it is.
So, yeah, so the potential can put the, the, the channels at a different set point.
So, I would think about it in terms of the permeability to just going to change.
So, the, the, or each of these ions.
So, the current itself isn't, um, you know, changing the, it's, that, that change in voltage is going to change your permeability to different types of ions.
There's this paper I should show you, um, it's, it was done in the hippocampus in emphasizing that.
But, it, it, the, the paper outlines, um, what they call behavioral time synaptic plasticity.
And it's in the hippocampus.
What they show is, as the mouse is running along a track, depending on how fast that mouse is running along the track,
more and more of the place field code get, will converge onto single cells.
And, in other words, the, so, as these, uh, inputs are targeting different parts of the tree,
this, uh, potential, this plateau potential we were talking about is long enough to allow the dendrite to integrate across a sequence pattern of,
so it's a pattern over time on the dendritic tree that, the, the neuron is able to learn.
All it needs is one plateau potential, and it can learn a place field.
Oh.
Oh, that makes sense.
That makes total sense.
Yes.
Yeah.
The neuron...
And that's because this calcium potential lasts for seconds.
You have time to integrate.
Wow.
That's profound.
That, that's, um, that's a, uh, what's it called, um,
um, I'm imagining the dendrite as a, um, as a, as a, as a, I don't know, as a word tensor.
Um, like, when you have a, when you have, like, a matrix times a matrix, you know,
when you have, like, nine matrices, and they're all three-dimensional, and they're all, like,
like, um, like, it's, like, one cube, and each cube has nine more matrices, and,
uh, inside each, each section of the cube.
Anyway.
What about the, how, that's, um...
Yeah, this is awesome.
Um...
But, hey, I'm gonna, I'm gonna hit the hey, and I am more of this if you're, if you're
up for it.
Yeah, let's do a, we'll do a, uh, a formal recording, and, uh, it's awesome.
Okay, so, um, message, would you send me a message, and if I, if I forget, I definitely
want to do this.
Um, but I will try to message you.
I'll send you, I'll send you the paper, and I'll send it to you, too, Kyle.
Okay.
Okay, goodnight.
Goodnight, guys.
Goodnight.
