=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0230y Dendrite Wave Pattern
First recorded: 2021-08-07T13:37:20.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/fc0589fe-0d25-466b-86a1-e167fc70d66e
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Just one neuron is enough to recognize a pattern, fire off a response that recognizes that pattern.
But it's because the other neurons are listening, taking a turn to actually listen, that the binding of information happens.
Larger numbers of neurons. Listen to smaller neurons. Listen to the activity of smaller neurons. Smaller numbers of neurons.
So there's the action potential one, right? Then there's actually action potential is a fireman event.
But then, uh, okay. But then there's like, it's like, uh, how long is the, uh, action potential going to last?
So that, so, so, so, so, the, the length of the action potential encodes some dimension of information.
It doesn't precisely matter what. It, it, it just encodes some dimension of information that is a, uh, delta.
There's a, there's a change in delta. And, uh, between, uh, between, uh, uh, between one, uh, state and another, or between one, uh, object and another object in category theory.
The length of action potential. The length of the time of action potential is going to, is going to be, uh, the representative of the delta or scale of what the, what the dendrite is passing onward.
Or, or, or, that is manifested in terms of, like, it's either going to, it's either going to have a faster frequency and, uh, with a smaller scale.
Or, or, or it's going to have a slower frequency with a broader, uh, impact.
And, and, so, because there's two possible situations, the firing speed of the neuron could be excited or it could be slowed down or based upon the activity of the dendrite.
The summation of the dendrite could result in a more excited action potential.
Or it could be, or it could result in a less excited action potential.
But, what's going to happen is the cells that are less excited are going to fire more regularly.
In other words, cells, cells, cells will oscillate towards something that's in between depressed and something that's in between excited.
So they're looking for a frequency that's going to allow, a cell's going to allow, a frequency that's going to allow it to be on the edge of either excitation or inhibition.
Okay.
So there's this, there's this transmission of patterns that are either, they're, they're getting, uh, faster and more specific, or they're getting slower and more big.
When patterns in your brain are getting faster and more specific, that's when novel data is being collected.
When the patterns in your brain are getting slower and, uh, vague, that's when novel stuff is not happening.
So, you're bored.
Or you're excited.
Or you're bored.
Or you're excited.
Or you're bored.
Or you're somewhere in between.
And eventually somewhere in between.
But you, there is like this, sort of, so going back to anesthesia being, disrupting the action potentials from happening.
And that results in the car.
That, that's interesting because, like, okay, so, that's interesting because the dendrites, the apical and basal compartments have to come together to result in the, uh, synaptic, uh, explosion.
Or the, I'm sorry, the, um, the, somat, the somat explosion.
They have to work together.
And that, that process is being inhibited.
Okay.
But what's being inhibited, though, is, is, is not the, um, is not necessarily the collection of data, but the, uh, the transmission of data.
Right?
So it's like, the collection of data is the, is the dendrite input.
It's the sensory input.
What comes to the dendrite.
But it's like, you, but it's like, without the action potentials, in the, in the pyramidal cells, there's no sound.
There's no noise being made.
There's no drums being beat.
And without the drumming, there's no consciousness.
It's like, it's like, it's like you're, it's like you're, that's like you're, that's like listening, and there's no sound coming.
So you could be, you could, you could technically, um, you could say that, okay, so if the dendrite is a neural network, then it's never going to be conscious.
It's never going to be conscious.
It's never going to be conscious.
A neural network is never going to be conscious.
And dendrites are never going to be conscious.
If you just emulated them in a computer.
You could make them firecracker.
You could make them firecracker.
You could never be conscious.
What's con-, what makes them conscious, okay, is the fact that they are, have a voice.
That they are transmitting.
Because the transmission, or the talking, is, is the, is the partner of listening.
So speaking is the partner of listening.
And without the speaking, there'd be no listening.
So that's what I'm saying, is that the transmission, if you send out a signal, and there's no one to hear it.
So it's very much that dendrites are listening to spikes.
Dendrites are listening to spikes.
Dendrites are listening to spikes.
The spikes are creating sensory information.
Now you think, well, does it have to be sensory information?
No.
I guess not.
Yes.
No.
Yes.
Because, see, what the dendrite is, the dendrite is never going to be conscious, though.
So it's not simply decoding the signal.
It's encoding a signal.
It's encoding a beat.
So I want to add something here.
I want to say that part of the inspiration for the differential, for what I call the, the, it's, it's, it's really the oscillatory AP differential.
Oscillatory.
Oscillatory.
Oscillatory.
Oscillatory.
Oscillatory.
Oscillatory.
There you go.
The oscillatory differential, or the O-S-C-D-I-F.
It's, it's, the, the, the differential is, comes from, uh, uh, uh, uh, Eastern mysticism idea.
The, the differential idea comes from Eastern mysticism.
It's mystic, mysticism?
Mysticism.
It is the idea that there is the mind emerging from the ground of being.
Or, the idea that there is a base level of awareness from which the mind rises.
So, what I'm saying is like, somewhere, it's like, okay, imagine that the, uh, because the dendrite can make a spike.
That a spike to a dendrite is like a sound, like a tone, or it's like, uh, it's a pattern of some kind, right?
It's part of, or part, or it's part of a larger pattern, or it's part of a sequence of the patterns, or it's a pattern that is part of a sequence of, yeah.
I mean, it's, I'm spinning a little bit, but it is a, um, to a dendrite, a sequence of spikes, is a sequence of sounds.
In the sense, that a sound is a sequence of frequencies, uh, or a word, like, as I'm speaking right now, as you're listening to these words.
Each, um, each piece of the pronunciation that I am making is something that is a pattern that's changing in each moment, in each frame.
If this was a video, or an audio, or this is an audio recording, but, like, each second of the audio recording, or each second of the video, it's going to contain a different piece of sound.
That is, uh, a phase pattern.
A phase pattern that's changing over time, and, uh, in the brain, it's, you can have, uh, phase patterns that are changing over time, and changing over, uh, topology.
Because you, because you, because you, because spatial patterns are basically, like, topological, it's like a topological detection, or volumetric detection.
And so, in either, either one, sometimes it could be either, yeah, it could be either.
It could be fluid detection, uh, fluid geometry.
It could be a gas detection, gas geometry.
Um, you know, or it could be, uh, heat detection, heat waves, heat geometry, smell geometry, taste and feel geometry.
All of these different sensory modalities that you can become aware of.
And they're, they're different to you, uh, but they're also different to one another.
That's why, so, they have to be different from one another in order for you to notice the difference between them.
Um, and so, they're going to be affecting the brain in, in a broad variety of ways, in terms of, you know, the, um, the, um, the phase at each stage of the temporal sequence.
So, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, what I'm getting at is that we've got,
our, our dendroids are neural networking computers, neurons are neural networking computers,
but they're producing an audio output, or a pattern output that is a, um, I guess it is an analog output, but a digital input.
It's like, it's like an analog output, yeah, it's kind of, yeah, so, I mean, I guess it's, um, it's discreet,
it has, there's discreet signals, so it's, it's, um, technically it is, uh, there's discreet signals.
So, it's, so it's, it's kind of like the, um, the outputs, uh, have varying deltas.
They're not binary outputs.
The deltas have varying deltas, and they're not binary.
They are discreet, but they have specific deltas, but you also have to have a specific pattern that's, that gets formulated and becomes virtual.
And you need to have a specific pattern that can move and carry information.
And that is where soliton waves come into the picture.
So, what we're saying is, is, uh, a bit of sound or a phase is going to actually be a wave.
A wave.
A wave.
A wave.
A soliton wave.
It's going to be a very stable wave pattern.
A very specific wave pattern.
Right?
So, a wave pattern.
That's interesting because we're talking, we've been talking about the transmission of neurotransmitters through multiple vesicles.
Right?
But, I may have been looking at it wrong.
Because, if you think about the ocean, there's, there's, um, there's water going in and out of channels.
But, but, the, but there's a lot of waves happening.
And, um, so, it is actually, like, neurotransmitters are sort of, like, um, they, just the same way that, that water molecules can serve to transmit waves.
So, also, neurotransmitters could transmit soliton waves or information-carrying waves.
So, the consciousness is not in the soliton wave.
Right?
But here you have a bunch of soliton waves.
They are oscillations.
And they're the dendrites, which are non-conscious detectors or computers, are detecting the waves, creating new ones.
And so, there's this sort of tracking of the development of changing wave patterns by the dendrites that's resulting in the production of wave patterns by the dendrites that are affecting the, the, uh, distribution of neurotransmitters and the rates of neurotransmitters and the timing of neurotransmitters.
And so, we have waves traveling over chemicals.
But since they're fundamentally, like, okay, so, they're like, uh, there's, there's, there's waves, waves, they're, these waves are electrical and acoustical.
But the point is that whatever they are, you know, they're, they're, on some level, they're electromagnetic, right?
And they're, um, interact with each other, right?
You get a bunch of small waves and they, they make bigger waves.
And the waves, and the way, and some of the waves are, uh, some of the, uh, wave oscillations, like, the, lots of, uh, so, you have large groups of waves, of neurons, that form oscillations.
And the oscillations are, like, uh, uh, they, they create a giant, they create bigger wave patterns.
The more neurons that oscillate together, the sort of bigger and broader the wave pattern.
But that's also the, the slower and the less interesting, it's, the less interesting wave pattern.
It is, it is, it is getting itself, when it's slowing down, it's getting itself ready.
It's, the brain is getting itself ready for whatever comes next.
It's sort of, like, uh, constantly getting itself ready again for the new stuff that comes in so that you can learn new sequences.
As soon as it perceives it, the current part of a current sequence, it's already getting ready for, it's already,
at that point, it's already, at that point, it's already ready for the next, uh, several steps that might be that, uh, the, in, in that sequence.
Or for some other sequence.
It's already ready for the, for what comes next.
And then, it's gonna get ready for what comes after that.
But it's, like...
