=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0237y Oscillation Washboard Calories
First recorded: 2021-08-01T17:53:01.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/c4d8bb0e-d644-4cac-9a8d-9df714e81609
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Brain Stateland. It's like, um, Brain Stateland is like, it's like, imagine, it's like, imagine you wake up and you see, like, a note on the wall and you say, how long is it going to take you to get to Brain Stateland?
And Brain Stateland is like, where you have, like, you've eaten a certain amount of food, you feel like you've had, you know, at least 600 calories, you're not starving, you're not super full, you're feeling good, smart calories like protein and omega-3, yeah, so, you've got your central nutrients in, taking care of yourself, working out,
watching your calories, spending your money wisely, you're spending money wisely, you're spending money wisely, you're spending money wisely, you're doing great, you're doing great work, and you are finding the shortest path back to Brain Stateland.
Brain Stateland is the state that your mind is in when you are working with optimal creativity on writing a book.
I mean, maybe you're listening to creativity vibrations, you're taking, you're doing life therapies to, like, make sure you're, you're up in your brain to get to optimal state,
listening to the right music, got nice headphones, you're really in an amazing state of being,
as spreading signals. It's like, when you wake up, you wake up, and you have had, it's like, as if your memories were from the previous night where you were, um, washed away or deleted,
like, like, the fact that, it's like, as if, as if, um, whatever, like, it's like, as if a signal coming in is, like, something on the washing,
on the washboard, right, but then, like, it's like, within the washboard, it's like, erasing the pattern with each, the pattern's fading away.
Okay. So we go back to oscillating with nothing there. Boom. Something is there.
And then it's sort of, like, it starts to fade away. Like, the signal is there for a second, like, the deviation is there.
But then we start to, like, brush it away. It starts to, like, fade back into the group oscillation.
And so we have the group oscillation dynamics happening now, where some group oscillations, uh, are in loops with other group,
with other different, uh, group, uh, oscillations.
So you have two different groups of oscillations that are interacting, and they could be, they could be interacting at the same speed, or at different speeds.
Um, and it could be that they are, uh, that there's no possibility that they'll merge.
Maybe they're just, because of the structure, there's no possibility of a merger between the two sections.
So there's, like, there's always going to be two sections.
But there's sort of, like, um, like, they can oscillate at different frequencies, but they're sort of, like,
there is a, there is a sort of clockwork interaction happening.
Sort of, sort of, um, you know, uh, there's a relationship between the rate of one oscillation
and, and the different rate of another large group oscillation.
Like, it's, it's, um, it's like you have two stars that are orbiting each other, but at different speeds,
but their gravitational effects affect one another.
And, um, so, there's some interesting gravitational effects happening when you have two stars that are sort of, like,
within each other's gravitational effects.
And, um, so weird things.
That doesn't necessarily mean that they'll merge.
Maybe they're not going to merge.
I don't know exactly.
Or maybe they're going to merge eventually, but not for millions of years.
Like, maybe they're locked in a good orbit around each other for a really long time.
And, and, uh...
