=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0242y ITS ALL INSIDE YOUR BRAIN
First recorded: 2021-07-29T04:26:35.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/cec3d92c-7807-4fd1-a630-5d73bd8e59af
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Man built technology. Man built, uh, he built technology that was going to change the earth. Like, biological machines. Like, imagine you could change the, the machines that are, that are, you could merge man with machine by creating nanomachines that merge with the human body.
Like, you just pour nanomachines on your, like, skin, and they, like, know what to do, and they start communicating with your cells.
And, so, they tell your, they can basically, like, transmute your cells. They can, like, instruct your body to build, to, build, um, to, they can, like, construct your body to, um,
to build, like, an AI computer system that, that monitors and protects your body's structure and repairs your body's structure and builds new, new structures.
Like, like, like, the AI will, like, like, the AI will, like, merge with your biology, but then it will intelligently communicate with your biology and reproduce itself until, um, it's able to have enough of its own tissue made from your tissue that it can use to, um, like, fully control and, uh, take over.
For the repair and maintenance and protection and regrowth of your body and changes.
It's, like, a symbiotic, it's, like, not, it's not the same symbiotic, it's, like, um, it's, like, a cybernetic upgrade.
It's, like, a cybernetic upgrade. It's, like, an intelligent friend that is a robot that is keeping you alive and is, like, repairing you if you're damaged and giving you, like, physical upgrades that can increase your capability
so that your mind is merged with, uh, computation, like, so that there is a bridge between artificial computation and biological.
See, like, an augmented reality terminal inside you can, like, you can, like, run programs on this augmented reality terminal and it will, like, answer you correctly because it's, like, you're communicating with the computer.
You're, you're, you're, if you make computer requests from the computer of your mind, you'll get computer results once your mind developed, once, once your mind has been redeveloped by the new AI, is what I'm saying.
Right? Because you'll have this, like, terminal, sort of, like, it's, like, a computer screen. It's, like, saying that you'll see a computer screen, you'll see a computer screen in your, in your, in your brain.
You'll see a computer screen in your brain and you'll be able to talk to it and you'll be able to interface with your computer like normal, but it will all be happening from within, from, from, from inside your brain.
It's, like, it's, like, it's, like, it's, like, it's, like, it's, like, it's the same, same as your laptop, you may even see your laptop.
It's, like, your laptop is floating in the sky in front of you, but it's actually just inside your head.
And then, so, you can talk to your laptop and you can change whatever you want.
You can change the music, you can change the lighting, you can change the way the world looks.
books. You can lay computer graphics on top of reality. But it's all inside your brain.
And this is where the future is going. Everything you see is computationally rendered inside
your brain. You are a computer program. That was a muscular contraction to show muscles
growing. Fitness. Fitness is all about going to the next bubble. I am going to...
