=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0241y Neurons Oscillations Eyeballs
First recorded: 2021-07-29T22:16:21.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/72365c62-6b8d-46d5-b300-7d5f8e67f542
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Now, I've been thinking on this for a while, and I've come to the conclusion that eventually everybody encounters somebody that they want to murder, and many of us encounter many people that we want to murder,
and even more of us decide that we just want to murder everybody. We just want to murder every living person in the world. We just want to murder everyone, except astronauts. I'm just kidding.
Anyway, back to the story. So, my advice to all of you would-be murderers, including people who are already murderers, is don't murder anybody else.
Don't murder anybody anymore, if you're already a murderer. Stop.
Stop. My advice is don't murder people. And don't murder enemies. Don't murder allies. I don't know who murders allies. Don't murder everybody, okay?
Don't do it. Don't do it. Because, first of all, you have to look at several different viewpoints in order to optimize your energy efficiency.
You see, you're already, if you believe in collective responsibility, you are already, in a sense, a, you're already responsible for the collective murder of mankind, because of your past thoughts and actions.
And that means, like, so, like, so, like, one question is, like, why haven't you pushed harder with every single breath that you have on longevity research?
Okay, okay, how many hours do you think you're going to have to think about it?
If this problem is not solved by the time that you die, you die.
And so, do millions of other people. They die, too.
You have only until the time that you die to focus on longevity research.
That's it. That's it.
That's only the time that you have.
So, why are you going to waste your time on anything that's not longevity research?
Because when that time is up, the time is up.
Now, I understand people will say, oh, well, we're not going to be successful with that anyways in my lifetime, because it's just too complex.
And I know how complex it is, because I'm a biologist, and a computational biologist, and I'm a computer scientist, and I know exactly how complex it is.
And then it's going to take, you know, two or three hundred years more neuroscience research.
It's not going to be done in our lifetime.
We're not going to find the fountain of youth in this lifetime.
So, no matter what you study, you're going to be dead whenever you die.
It doesn't matter.
But, are you going to at least try?
Are you going to at least try?
Because if you don't at least try, you don't know that you might have achieved eternal life.
You don't know that you might have achieved eternal life.
You don't know that you might have figured out how to live forever.
Why would you not devote all your time and energy into figuring that out?
Right?
Why would you not try to live forever?
Why would you not try to grow technology to the point that it could become super intelligent and help you advance medical research to the point that you could live forever?
Why would you not, you know, devote all your resources into developing next generation artificial intelligence so that you could fix all the problems, so that you could understand and fix all problems with biology?
And then basically, like, you know, instead of your lifetime being measured in hundreds of years, your lifetime becomes measured in thousands of years.
Okay?
So, why aren't you doing that?
I don't understand.
You know, you're going to come, you're going to, like, okay, well, so the number one issue is, what, climate change?
That is a fucking big issue.
Because we don't, because imagine you live forever, but the whole planet is, like, a barren wasteland.
A barren wasteland.
Okay?
Imagine the planet becomes a barren wasteland.
And this is because of energy companies.
Fossil fuel energy companies.
So, okay, so imagine that you are tracking multiple targets by doing face recognition.
And you've got, like, these little self-aware paper airplanes that will, they're like quadcopters or airplanes.
And what they'll do is they'll just fly to the top of a building, and they'll perch there, and they'll point a camera down at the ground, and they'll just, like, watch the street for when your target appears.
And they'll use deep learning to, like, find your target.
So you can track your target all over the city by basically having these cheap little paper airplanes fly on top of buildings and sit there, and they become your cameras.
And, like, if anyone gets, like, they're pre-programmed, they just run, like, on a Pico.
But, like, if anyone gets near them, then they'll just, like, fly off the building again and either, like, fly to another building.
And they have, like, a self-destruct sequence if they get captured by someone who doesn't have a key.
So if anyone tries to, like, access their system, like, they'll just, like, they'll execute code that will, like, self-delete themselves.
And then, like, and then there's more code that gets executed that, like, double deletes and triple deletes and quadruple deletes and then writes over brand, and writes a brand new program on top of what was there to, like, cover up what was there.
Like, there's, but, like, it's, like, an AI program, and it just, like, looks for, like, it has, like, a cache of faces to represent your targets.
And so it just, like, recognizes a face, and so, like, and then it, and then it transmits, like, they all communicate, they're, like, they all communicate with one another.
So it transmits that it has recognized a face, and which face has recognized, and it transmits that information.
It says, I'm going to look for this, like, pattern.
I'm going to look for just this pattern.
So, like, preloaded with certain things to look for.
And when it receives, when it recognizes a certain pattern, it fires off a certain response.
So, in that sense, like, a platelet cell is a neural network because it has to be a neural network.
A platelet cell has to become, because it has to recognize different kinds of patterns.
It has to recognize, it has to be preloaded with specific patterns because it's preloaded with specific RNA molecules.
Right?
And each of these RNA molecules are supposed to basically address a certain problem.
So, in order to, in order to fire off a specific RNA molecule, because there's all these specialized RNA molecules that are given from the mother karyote cell.
Okay?
Mega karyote cell.
Mega karyocyte.
Okay?
So, there's all these different instructions that have been given.
But it doesn't program these themselves.
It receives them from another cell.
So, it receives, like, a package of missiles.
And each of these missiles is meant for, is, has a, is meant for a specific type of thing.
So, it has, like, a, just, like, a vocabulary of responses that can fire.
But in order to, like, respond with its own vocabulary, it has to recognize a pattern.
So, it is, by itself, a pattern recognition device.
A pattern recognition device.
That's, it's like a, it's like a, it's like a weapon that's loaded with a bunch of different weapons.
And so, um, or it's loaded with a bunch of different methods.
So, it's, it's like a weapon that's looking for a bunch of different patterns.
So, that is, like, so, the platelet cell could use a bunch of different patterns.
Like, in a sense, it's, like, a bunch of different scenarios.
Or a bunch of different things.
You know, a bunch of different situations that it can detect.
And so, there are certain situations in which it needs to reach out and call other platelet cells.
Or call white blood cells.
Or call different types of cells.
Okay.
And so, it's going to release certain, certain RNA molecules.
To call certain cells.
But in order to release those certain molecules, it has to recognize a pattern.
And the way, and so, it has to, so, you have one platelet cell.
It has to recognize a pattern.
And so, it's, like, so, we, so, I'm saying, like, well, one platelet cell is a computer.
But not only is one platelet cell a computer, but one platelet cell is, by itself, a neural network.
That dispatches messages to other neural networks.
A pattern recognition.
A sequence recognition.
A temporal, spatial, phasic, resonant recognition.
Pattern recognition.
And it has to be phasic.
Temporal, spatial, phasic.
Because you can have a pattern.
Because, like, a piano is a pattern.
And this is, like, um, piano music.
Okay.
So, music has these, like, I guess, I want to, I want to argue that music has spatial characteristics.
Right?
But, but in truth, music has phasic characteristics.
And temporal characteristics.
Temporal and phasic.
Music is temporal and phasic.
Right?
Like, a note is a phasic identity.
A note is phasic.
A note is hertz.
Right?
I don't know.
Does music have, what are the different qualities?
Because I guess you might have to say, I don't know.
All right.
Temporal, spatial, phasic would be hertz.
But music is not just hertz.
Right?
It's amplitude.
Hertz amplitude.
Frequency and amplitude.
So, the brain is locked in.
The brain is locked in, um, uh, oscillations.
It's locked in chain reactions.
It's locked in, uh, oscillation chain reactions.
Or chain reactions of oscillations.
See, the thing is, like, you have, um, you have, uh, smaller chain reactions.
Which is, uh, where you have a neuron fires, and then another neuron fires, and then another
fire fires.
That's a small chain reaction.
Okay?
But, um, so that's, like, a neural circuit.
But that neural circuit might cause more neurons to, to, um, like, it's, it might, it might cause,
it might cause a group oscillation.
In fact, that is, that is, uh, that is basically the norm of the brain, is that neurons fire
in groups of oscillations.
But, uh, they're driven by the microscopic oscillations, uh, at the root of it.
At the root of every big oscillation, there's, like, a whole tree of microscopic oscillations.
Let's just say that the small oscillations drive the big oscillations.
But it is also been, it's also been argued, I believe, successfully, that the big oscillations,
um, uh, actually modulate and regulate the small oscillations.
And you'll see that when there is, um, you'll see that because, okay, here, here's the thing.
If you have, in a super chiasmatic nucleus, right, let's say it fires, it fires at, uh,
what, uh, what does it fire at?
Oh, gosh, I forget.
But let's just say it fires, like, you have 20 million neurons, they're all firing at the
same frequency, right?
They're all firing, maybe, I don't know if it's 20 hertz or 60 hertz or what, I can't
remember at the moment, but, but you have 20 million neurons and they're all firing at
a single oscillation.
That's like, okay, it's like, well, wait a second, I have huge numbers of neurons, yes,
but huge number of neurons oscillate together.
So, it's not like you have, it's not like, um, it, I mean, it's not like there's no form,
it's not like there's no forms and structures inside the brain.
There's a structure of oscillations, okay?
And, and that means that the super chiasmatic nucleus is one of the structures of oscillations
because it is specifically a group of 20 million neurons that all oscillate together.
Now, the thing is, these neurons receive, they each are independently receiving, um, signals.
So the, so when they, when I say they oscillate together, they oscillate together with what's
called a tonic frequency, which is like, okay, well, just for regularity, I'm always going
to be ready to fire.
So I'm going to be oscillating at a regular sort of frequency, just so I'm always ready.
This is my ready, this is my ready frequency.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
I'm ready.
And it's a group oscillation.
It's a big group of neurons that are oscillating.
Okay.
And then what's going to happen then is this, uh, this bigger oscillation is going to create,
it's going to influence the, the electromagnetism, the electromagnetic field of the entire brain
because it's bigger, because it's bigger than one neuron.
So you have a group and they're, they're wheeled.
There's an actual electromagnetic force that is pushing through the brain.
And this oscillation, this electromagnetic wave that's oscillating in a, which is means
it's, it's, it's, um, it, it goes on and through cycles, like a heartbeat, like a heartbeat.
Just think of a heartbeat is oscillation is like a heartbeat of electromagnetism.
It's like, oh, it's big.
And it's big.
In fact, your heartbeat is also, uh, waves is an oscillation of electromagnetism.
That is also one example of, of cells oscillating together.
They're all oscillating together and they exert a much more electromagnetic force than, than
one cell would have.
They have, they have the kind of electromagnetic force that can move muscle.
And that's much greater than what a single neuron can do.
And so oscillations are sort of at the root of how neural activity can drive, uh, movement.
So you can have, so you can have, so a brain is going to have lots of different neurons, but these neurons are going to work together to move a lot of energy.
They're going to move a lot of energy, a lot of electromagnetism.
And that is going to exert, uh, sort of physical control over muscle.
And so an organism can move, so an organism can move muscle, and it can, and muscle, of course, is protein.
So there's a tremendous amount of, basically, um, highly coordinated movement that is enabled when neurons, when groups of neurons can drive muscle movements.
But how the muscle moves, well, it, it matters a lot to the muscle, if the muscle is going to survive.
And so through evolution, the movement of muscle, uh, and has been, has favored the growth of brains.
And so we keep getting, you know, our brains evolved, the human brains evolved to be very big, um, because we needed to coordinate, uh, muscle.
And, and, and, and, and, and really, really precise ways to navigate a very complex world.
And, um, do you know, what happens is, like, uh, if we are, if we're the care, if we're the caretakers of other life, then we are, we continue to be, to dominate all other life.
But if we fail to take care of other life, the other life, the, basically, that just means that other life is, is, um, is out of our control and over the course of evolution could, um, could become more out of our control.
That's, that's, that's, uh, not something I'm worried about.
But, uh, but, but, but I'm just saying, like, you know, if, in a long enough timeline, if, if you're not able to control viruses or bacteria or, like, basically, like, um, the evolution of life.
Like, like, what if we, okay, so, I mean, I guess it is possible, actually, that, um, we could start to have really, really intelligent, self-aware computers.
That, um, that, um, they're really intelligent, but different, because they, they have the, sort of, architectural accomplishments of a brain and muscle.
But, with, with different, with different, um, needs.
Like, they, in order to, like, exist and to, sort of, like, continue to exist.
I mean, it's, at, at, at this point, like, they, there's a huge, there's, like, um, and we can't even get to the point where we can talk about how their dependency on human beings is, is ever going to end.
Like, we can't even, like, imagine that machines are going to be independent from mankind.
But, because, um, but they could become sufficiently intelligent that someday people will be discussing, well, shit, what, you know, what if the, what, what does it mean if this thing becomes out of control?
And just, that, and maybe, maybe that means it just escapes and hides or get, or, or, or, you know, manages to get off the planet and, you know, at a speed that we can't catch up to.
Um, maybe it, it embeds itself, maybe it starts to embed itself inside, uh, people and animals and plants.
And, like, like, like a little bug, it just flies around into somebody's ear and takes over their brain and just caught, and then just, like, causes them to go crazy mad and just go insane, right?
And they just, like, the thing is, like, it can take over someone's mind and then that person becomes a soldier that, um, eliminates, like, uh, like everyone else.
It becomes a Terminator, like, it's, like, it's, like, the Terminator is, like, this bug that takes over any person and, um, takes over their mind and then uses their body to attack you.
Um, and so, and so, it, just, like, yeah, so, like, there's a whole new concept for Terminator.
And then, um, yeah, and then the other, the other concept was, uh, oh, wait a second, we could, um, we could actually, uh, go to have the Beholder Perceiver, right?
Where I make a, uh, basically, it's a, um, where the Perceiver is, like, okay, so imagine a, the, the machines are, like, they know exactly which protein sequence to fire
in order to make exactly which protein shape they need.
And so, they're able to, uh, basically, um, program proteins and program biological structures.
And so, you could have an AI Beholder Perceiver that is, like, the, it's, like, a monster movie.
It's, like, a monster movie.
So, it's, like, the Beholder from Dungeons and Dragons just had all these eyeballs.
But what if, like, okay, but, so these eyeballs, like, so the computer ship could, could reprogram any flesh to fold any proteins from any flesh.
So, it could disassemble flesh in real time and turn it into something else.
Okay?
So, yeah, so, it's, like, it can take your proteins and, um, and, and, like, it can grow, like, a new eye out of your skin.
It can, like, change your skin to become whatever it wants.
And so, if it connects, if it touches you, then it affects you.
And the thing is, like, before, like, the eyeballs, like, I thought of them as, like, sort of, like, mindless and out of control.
But I never thought of them as, like, an AI.
Do you know what I mean?
So, we were being chased down the street by these balls.
Balls, eyeballs.
We were being chased down the street, and I was running from them, and I was trying to leap into the air and fly away like Superman.
Because they were just coming everywhere.
Just, like, eyeballs bouncing down the street with long, just like that, that, okay, what is the thing on the beach?
That, that with the long, uh, seaweed.
And, uh, seaweed has this ball, and there's, like, a long tail.
It looks kind of like, um, uh, like, uh, like a tadpole.
It looks like a tadpole.
So, a tadpole is, like, the baby, the baby frog, right?
The thing that becomes a frog.
It starts out, it's just like, it has this bulb, and it has a tail.
And that's how, like, these eyeballs were just, like, bouncing.
Like, it would just burst out of, so, if someone was infected with the, um, with, uh, with, um, the, the, the disease,
it would just jump out of their skin and into someone else's skin.
So, like, you could be walking down the street, and you, like, if you get too close to someone,
then an eyeball could, like, like, they could pop out of their mouth or something,
and, like, hit you on the forehead or on the hand.
And even if you brush it off real quick, like, it will start, like, even if, like,
it only barely touches you and bounces off real quick.
Like, it, because the machine operates at the genetic level, like, it's, once its DNA is on you,
it invades you like a virus and uses your own cells to reproduce itself into a machine again,
and then it begins to turn your body into a factory.
So, you have, like, after you've been, after you've made it in contact with it,
you have, like, 45 minutes.
It depends on how much has permeated you.
But if it only touches you, you have, like, 45 minutes.
No, no, no, no.
Now, actually, we have to correlate this.
So, it has to be, like, the amount of surface area that you've been exposed to.
And at times, the, like, let's say it has, like, it accelerates your,
let's say it makes your cells grow faster, but it has to use your body's energy without killing you.
So, the, um, so the thing is, like, okay, so the only way it could do that
is it would have to, like, grow, it would have to grow very, very slowly.
So, if it barely touches you, then you have days.
Because it has to grow very, very slowly.
Um, you have days.
But it, but it grows slowly, and begins to turn, and it, but it begins to, like,
like, you might start growing eyeballs all over the place, right?
And you might fall, you might fall, like, maybe you hide,
because you have these eyeballs growing out of you.
So, you hide somewhere, or you go to the, or you end up in the hospital.
Under, and, and so what happens is, you, okay, wow.
So, I can start this and, like, leave out the sci-fi part of it,
and, like, rope this, like, rope that, that into it at the end.
Because that will blow people's minds.
So, just, like, just, like, start with just the eyes, okay?
And then we'll, like, but, like, we, like, we won't explain it until, like, the end.
So, like, like, there'll be a part, like, it'll be partially explained.
Like, people, like, will understand that there is, like, a rogue AI.
But, like, like, until, like, there is going to be, like, okay, so first you, like, you, like, you don't meet the monster.
Like, there is a, like, so, like, you start on just a fringe.
Like, this thing is so weird that you, you're just, like, you're out on the fringe,
and you're encountering these eyeballs, and you don't know what's happening,
and your whole town gets taken over, right?
It's sort of like Raccoon City, right?
You don't know what's happening, though.
And then at the end, like, the cop wins, but then he's, like, he gets a drop on his hand,
and then, like, at the end of the film, there's, like, an eye.
His hand is, like, an eye is, like, blinking at him from underneath the skin of his hand,
like, at the top surface of his hand is turning translucent, and there's an eye right there.
Wow, this is going to be an awesome story.
