=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0240y Awesome chat Eyeballs
First recorded: 2021-07-30T03:08:17.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/171e78bf-7d4e-4417-8171-aac6d87063b8
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Yes, so what if I was to do protein folding with the computer? What could I build? What could I build? Could I build organs? Eyeballs. Could I construct an eyeball? Right? If I can fold proteins, could I unfold them? Could I unfold and refold them? And restructure and build new organs that have never existed before? Could I design new kinds of organs?
New kinds of eyeballs for human beings? Okay, your eye is defective. I'm going to grow you a new one that has better vision than anyone's vision has ever been before, okay?
Like this vision, this is like going from 1080p eyesight to 4K eyeballs. Like what if we upgraded your eyeballs from 1080p to 4K, right?
Do you know what I'm saying? Do you know what I'm saying? Like that is what I'm talking about here. That's what I think I'm talking about here. Yes, that is absolutely what I'm talking about here.
Because whether this technology comes today or whether it comes tomorrow, it's definitely on the way. And that's what you ought to know.
That's what you ought to know. And so, and so it must be, so it must be told. That's right.
Hello, it's Micah here.
What I'll do, I'll just say I'm a software developer for three plus years. I'm actually, I'm not sure how much time, but it's more than three years.
And I make AR and VR applications that run on the web with WebXR, with WebXR API and A-Frame and 3.js.
And I'm getting into React 3 Fiber and I love it. You can make like 3D, basically like 3D websites, right?
And people can put it on their VR headset and they can explore it in VR with the two controllers.
Or they, it's going to, like, I don't have an AR headset yet, but it's going to work in augmented reality where there won't be a background,
but there's like a user interface that people can play with and move around.
And like when you press a button that says next or previous, you're going to, you're going to,
an object is going to change its scale, rotation, and position and like move in front of you.
And like, and then you can click next and you'll go to the next object and it's like, um, you can like point at it and click a button
and it will fly towards your hand and you can grab it out of the air and it's, and then you can throw it.
And then you can like pick up one object and hit another object.
And this is all like, it's all like in a 3D environment. It'll work in AR, it'll work in VR, it'll work in a phone.
And I have like, I have like some big projects planned.
And like, it's, there's a book that I'm working on that's going to be, that's going to be like the basis of these WebXR,
um, like a series of WebXR websites.
And, um, but, but, but I, I really am interested in also in collaborating with other programmers to build projects.
Like I, I like to know, I like to get to know more programmers who want to collaborate
because there's, there's things that I know how to build that not a lot of people know how to build.
But then there's a lot of things that like other people know how to build that I don't yet know how to build.
And so like, I bet if I get on the right, if I meet the right team, like we could build stuff that's like even like,
like we could take on Twitter or Netflix or Facebook.
Like we could, we could do some really cool stuff.
But I just, it's not, it's about like, where do, what, what, who do I, who do I need to work with
so that we can do some really cool, anyway, those are, those are my thoughts.
Anyway, I just wanted to share like, that's kind of like what I'm up to.
And I, so I've appreciated this whole conversation, which is, which I've been listening for a very long time
because in the conversation went all over the place, but in different, sort of different topics,
it's, we're threaded into the conversation.
It was great.
But, um, uh, yeah, no, I mean, like I, like I, like, while I was listening, I said, I said,
well, what if we had another clubhouse chat that was like called getting, getting things done?
Like, and like, what, like, what is your way of getting things done?
How do you organize your mind?
How do you organize your thinking around having a business and, uh, bringing, uh, a product from an idea to, uh,
to, to, to something that you're actually on a, is it on a shelf or it's on amazon.com or something,
or it's a website or it's a cloud service, like, like, and, yeah, and who do you work with
and how do you get funded and, like, the whole process of organizing, like, all of your content, you know,
with, you know, like, if you're going to organize a book or if you're going to organize, like,
what is a major thing that you want to do that you haven't done yet that's just, like, next level
and, like, how do you wrap your mind around that?
And everyone has to kind of, you know, find their own path in a way, but that's why I love this conversation today.
Yeah, take care.
Bye-bye.
What's the memory in there?
Yeah, yeah.
Oh, there she comes.
That's all I want to record.
I got a rule.
Yeah, come on.
No, she's scary.
No, she's scary.
She was like, oh, I want to just watch out.
She hot.
Oh, you didn't run?
Yeah.
What's it?
What's it?
I think it's trying to have a brain attack in her life.
Oh.
Where?
They got the paddle?
Shit.
Oh, my goodness.
Oh, shit.
That's miserable.
What's that?
Yeah, it's over.
What?
Sure.
Oh, I missed what he's got, maybe.
What can you see?
Oh, there.
I can't believe he's got a, uh, one of those, uh, like a jammer wetsuit ones.
Yeah.
Like a short wetsuit.
It looks like a hard day.
They're taking...
It's going to be reduced.
They're taking him to the ambulance, so they're not doing something here on the beach.
They're gone.
I think they're wearing a thing.
No, I think they were on the air.
They were wearing a thing.
Oh, they were?
No.
They didn't say that.
This is what it is now.
This is what it was straight in the air with upsetting individuals.
That was some serious.
You know, me, Mary, I'm not a very good words.
What happened?
This will not be a long speech. Thank you.
I wasn't involved on the software side of things. I was aware of it. I was at the time
doing stuff with JavaScript and Dreamweaver and related software libraries.
How long is that flight? Because it sounds like it's too long for the Quest 2. Are you sure?
Oh, okay. I think of my Oculus Quest 2 as a two and a half hour device but I also have an external battery that I just carry with me so I can go as long as I need.
There's something. I was going to say, yeah, I'm really excited about the Snapchat glasses.
That's great that they're starting to ship to the creators but then eventually it's going to go on sale for customers and everyone can have these.
I hope they're going to be cheap, the Snapchat glasses. It's augmented reality. It looks awesome. I just hope it's cheap.
Yeah. New ones. No, these are totally new. These ones have augmented reality so you see graphics in front of you in the world.
Yeah. Okay. Let me tell you about this demo. Check this out. Imagine you're on a scooter. There's electronic scooters you see everywhere.
You're on a scooter and you're wearing the glasses and you see coins on the ground in front of you.
And as you roll down the street, you roll into the coin and it disappears and it makes a sound just like you're Sonic the Hedgehog.
It's like you get to be Sonic the Hedgehog in real life with a scooter and hitting the coins, collecting the coins.
Is it available to buy? I didn't know that. Yeah. Yeah. But this is awesome. I didn't know it was available to buy. Shit. I want to buy one.
Okay. But let me tell you something else. Okay. So now Oculus has opened the API for creating augmented reality applications with the Oculus Quest.
Did you know it could do augmented reality? It can. And now developers are starting to create augmented reality applications.
In fact, if you are a developer, you can start creating an AR application in Unity right now in your Oculus Quest.
Yeah. That's what they're doing. So at the moment, it's only working with Unity, but they're trying to make sure that anyone who develops a program
can, you know, it's just, it's just that they haven't got to the other ones yet, but it's going to be all, all developers with all tools, all developer tools, you know, eventually.
But something that I've always wanted since like I was, since I was a kid, like a two foot tall kid is the ability to turn reality into a video game.
And that's what we're getting. It's so awesome. Yeah. Yeah. The graphics are going to be, the graphics from mixed reality are going to be so good that, um, you know, at some point the, the, the video games will look more real than reality.
Like I was, yeah, like, I'm just like imagining, like, what if we could create computer graphics that were actually higher resolution than reality?
Like, how awesome would that be?
Have you, have you seen, um, Unreal Engine's Nanite? Because Nanite is an exciting new technology because they're just really efficiently delivering graphics so that you can, uh, the, the artists no longer
has to worry about polygon count. You can put, you can make, you can, basically it just delivers exactly what you need to see.
So you could have a scene that has 50 billion polygons in it, but, but the computer's only going to send the 20 million polygons that are facing your eye at that particular moment.
And, and, um, that is like huge CPU saving. So we can have these like, you know, extremely detailed universes that are just, um, the, it would take artists,
it, it takes artists like just an incomprehensible amount of time to design that like without like amazing tools that sort of proceed, help them to procedurally generate their content.
But based on like photogrammetry scans of the real world where the real detail is because there's just like a tremendous amount of detail now that we can deliver to a person's eyeballs with this new technology.
My, my, my, like, I'm, my, my, my, like, I'm also in the neuroscience, uh, space and in the deep learning space, but like in terms of like, I'm also in the space of like designing the architecture for, um, new kinds of machines, like self-aware machines and like intelligent glue and like all sorts of like, yeah, all sorts of weird stuff.
Yeah. I mean, the only way to catch up is like, I mean, I literally, I literally read books and papers on neuroscience and you, and I think it's like at least 15 years of biology to catch up to like everything that I've read.
So just like, like, um, definitely, you definitely won't, won't learn everything from me, but, but, uh, but I'm working on a book and it's going to be awesome.
Someone's going to have neuroscience and deep learning and then it's going to be in Webixar and people can experience the book and I hope it's a, I hope it's great, but I gotta get, I actually have to go.
I have to, uh, go and work on this book and it was great talking to all of y'all and, uh, yeah, um, it's, it's, it's about three, it's about three months from now.
I'll, um, I haven't officially published a date, but I will. Great. Okay. Bye everybody. Cheers.
