=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0261y Nutrition, Grit, IQ, learning performancd
First recorded: 2021-06-23T05:39:15.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/0b9a2f8d-a389-4196-92dc-94293fc97b2f
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
You could, the grid theory says that that's something internal to the person.
Well, sorry, sorry, sorry, Daniel, just let me finish.
The situation research says there's probably a ton that we can do in the situation towards the kind of focus and focused effort that you actually need.
I think the grid theory in its purest form, Daniel, hang on a second, Daniel.
I think the grid theory in its purest form does not actually say that we have to make assumptions about a person's innate grit.
But what I add here is that we have people who are easily distracted, people who are, it's very easy to focus.
And that comes back into, you know, like someone who's very distracted might have attention deficit disorder or many other possible mental illnesses.
And then you see, well, there's neural correlates for attention deficit disorder or for autistic disorder or other disorders.
And there are, you know, the blood moves in the brain differently.
There might be inhibited blood flow in the prefrontal cortex, for example.
There might be nutritional factors that that person has is seriously malnutrition, has serious malnutrition, you know, and maybe they've had malnutrition their entire life.
And maybe they're very sedentary.
Maybe they're very low energy.
Maybe they have depression.
Like, I mean, it's like the number of correlations.
And so there really could be, I think, a lot of built-in factors from their nutrition and from their environment, from the stress of their environment that may be causing them to become distracted easily or unable to focus or unable to accomplish stuff.
And to have to exhibit less grit as a sort of innate pattern.
And in some cases, you wouldn't be able to just simply, you know, I mean, maybe you can tell people, yeah, if you have more grit, that will help some people to reorganize themselves to, I don't know, reduce their inflammation and focus on improving their grit and their persistence and try different techniques and exercises.
I think there are studies that show that grit is very, very correlated to certain circumstances of people who grow up.
That's pretty much the same.
So one is, as a parent, research around grit.
But, so, I want to give my, I want to share my two cents and then I'm going to get, I'm going to, I'm going to get going pretty soon.
But I just wanted to say that I really have the, like, I think that we'll discover that people who have, who have persistent signs of low grit will have also, like, it'll be correlated with, like, low vitamin D levels.
Or they'll have high, like, you know, disease factors, like high levels of inflammation, or oxidative stress.
Or maybe they'll be, like, suffering from a bacterial viral infection and, or cancer infection.
And these will, you know, like, the, like, the correlations will be with a person's mental gritness and, and their, and their adherence to applications real life will be something you could detect with some sort of test that you give somebody, I think, at some point in the future.
