=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0265y Doc Zee Transcription Companies 3d
First recorded: 2021-06-17T02:38:13.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/fc1bb54c-d2dd-4611-b9eb-6d6ba2f4e416
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
You shared this, uh, good idea where I could, uh, let me write this down. I could make, uh, commercials that have, that feature a studio, a studio that, um, uh, that's, that says about itself, we specialize in, um, 3D animations, 3D animations, visualizations, 3D visualizations, 3D visualizations of,
of, um, um, mechanisms of action of psychedelics.
Mechanisms of action of psychedelics.
And I actually, I actually, not.
These are particularly powerful when demonstrating to the public what the company, what your company is, is selling.
How, how many, uh, companies out there, uh, need this kind of service? Like, what, what's the market count?
There's, there's, there's 30, there's 35, 30 or 35, uh, uh, uh, in the Canadian Stock Exchange at the moment.
And in the NASDAQ, I'm not sure.
Look at, I, there's a website, SciIndex.
Is it Sci, S, S, C, I, Index?
No, it's P, P, S, Y.
Oh, oh, you're like, duh.
Okay, sorry, SciIndex, yeah.
That's also a Pokemon, SciIndex.
I'm just joking.
What?
SciIndex, it's actually SciDuck.
It's always a joke.
If you, SciDuck is a Pokemon, SciIndex is not a Pokemon.
I know SciDuck, the Pokemon, yeah.
Yeah, SciIndex should be another Pokemon, because it's funny.
Um, okay, that, that, that, that's...
Leading Psychedelic Stock Index, wow.
Yeah.
And how many companies are in there?
Uh, a lot.
How many?
Uh, at least 35.
At least.
I, I, I have, I mean, I'm just seeing a list.
Yeah, that's what I thought.
That's what I thought, that it was about 35.
That's what I said earlier.
Yeah.
So, so, now, and, you know, you can charge the website.
I can keep the example on the website.
It has to be like, whoa.
And then, you, you, you need to write to all the companies in the SciIndex saying,
Hey, I can, I can, I can make what you're offering, uh, really clear to the public, right?
Yeah.
And when the public sees something that's clear to them, they invest.
They buy stock.
Hmm.
And that, that's, that's very important for public companies.
Yeah.
That people buy their shares.
Hmm.
And you don't have to give your code away.
Yeah.
But then, why, why wouldn't these companies just go to, like, studios that have an expertise
in Maya?
Um, well, I mean, that, that, that's a different, um, it's a different sort of skill set, really.
Um, so, I mean, uh, I'm not, I'm, I'm not a, uh, I wasn't, I'm not, like, a three-day
modeler, um, I'm, I'm more like, um, I can, I can, uh, what, what, what I'm, what I'm saying
is I can make, uh, animated 3D illustrations and tell a story.
And that, that's, that's more of, um, it's more of, um, it's more of, like, being a writer
with 3D, with 3D, and then, then, and, and, uh, to show, like, a sort of, like, to explain
things in a...
That's a, that's extremely powerful.
Do you have an example?
Yeah.
Huh?
Do I have, yeah, oh yeah, I have examples.
Do you have an example that you can send me?
Um, yes, yes, yes, I do.
I can, I mean, I can send you my, well, I should probably combine a lot of my, like,
I have a lot of examples of things that I can do, but I should probably make, like, one
video that, like, puts them all in the same video to show, like, I have, I have a lot of
examples of software that I, that I, uh, that I've made.
That tells a story in 3D.
Well, well, so, I mean, yes, yes, I do have an example of, like, like, um, uh, because I
have, uh, well, I mean, like, like, for one instance, I have, like, so I guess it's not
really going to be that interesting to show, like, a movie inside VR, inside AR, but I do
have that, I do have, like, uh, tilt brush art, like, 3D art that's inside VR.
I think maybe, maybe I should build something new that, like, where I import, um, maybe,
maybe I should, like, like, imagine a test case, right, where I, um, I am basically going
to build, like, I'm going to, like, um, get some 3D assets that are, uh, related to, uh,
different chemicals and different, uh, cell types and pull them into a 3D program and move
between them and show different animations of how I'm moving them around as I'm talking
about them, and, um, that could be, that could be one type of thing, like, I don't know, you've
seen the 3D carousel that I have, right, where I can put anything in the 3D carousel, it could
be a 3D object, or it could be, so I can move things with an animation, and, um, uh,
I'm not sure that I've seen it.
Oh, you're not, okay, well, I mean, I can, I can send you a list of, uh, videos, it was
a thing I showed you in the Oculus Quest a long time ago, it would, but if you don't
remember, that's fine, it was, like, a super long time ago, uh, it was a, if you don't
remember, uh, I, I think, I, I think I had to try on the Oculus Quest, uh, a long, yeah,
but I think, I think that we were late, yeah, so maybe I need to send a video, yeah, I can
send, I can send you videos of, of my work, and you can, um, you can see, I, I need to
make some, so, only some of my work is on video, so I need to, like, make some, a few
more videos that just show some of the additional things that, uh,
I just need one example, just one example that I need, that, that shows how you can tell
a story with 3D.
Sure.
Because that's how I'm going to stay.
Okay.
Okay, good.
Well, I mean, yeah, I can, I can, I can send that over, uh, I can send you something
right now.
Yeah, I'd love to see it.
All right, let me send this to you right now, uh, let me look at my, hang on, let me, let's
see, how should I send, I should send it over Facebook, I think.
Uh, okay, so let me send you, uh, is, I, can I send a five-minute video, is that ridiculous?
No.
Okay, let's look at.
Yeah, on, on Facebook, I don't know what the size of it is.
Yeah, I don't know if it, if it's a, if it's, uh, if, okay, let's see what Facebook says.
Okay, so I'm picking the Messenger.
It's a five-minute and 39-second video.
It's, basically, I have one phone filming another phone, and the other phone shows me,
like, the augmented reality application that I built.
And, uh, it may, it may not be the most ideal way to show off what I can do, but it's, it's,
uh, the latest, it's sort of like the latest, uh, video that I've made.
And, uh, it says, it says preparing, but it's like a, it's like, I don't know how long this
is going to take.
It's, it's giving me one of those, um, icons.
It says, uh, this could take a while.
Uh, let me check my, let's see, let's check this other screen.
It says preparing, but this may take, this, this, uh, sending you this video may take,
uh, a few minutes, it looks like.
So, um, I don't know if you want to, we could talk while it's, uh, it's being transmitted,
or you, or you can call me back later or something.
Uh, it's up to you.
Yeah, I think I'll...
Why don't you just call me back?
I, because I, then I, because I might get engaged with...
Something else?
Uh, and, yeah, with somebody else and some, and another call, and then I'll, I'll never
get back to you or something.
And I, I don't, I don't want to, I, I want to, I want to just see if you've got something
powerful enough to, for me to think that, hey, look, this is, I mean, you can use this
as an example to convince other people, companies and the scientists.
Yeah.
What's you doing different?
Um, aside from that, let me think, uh, what am I doing different?
I mean, one of the big changes is that I'm, I'm devoting a lot of my focus to, uh, to writing
a book.
So, so every day it's like, um, there's a, there's a, there's, um, I've got a lot of audio
recordings that I need to sort of, like, listen to and, and, uh, like, and, like, transcribe.
Like, I guess some of it is, is, um, already transcribed because I have, uh, you know, I
have a device that sort of auto transcribes, uh, the record, my recordings for me.
And so, some of it, like, some of it I need to play.
What?
What?
What device calls?
Say again.
What device calls?
I, I, you're muffled.
I couldn't, uh, make out what you're saying.
Um, what is the device called?
What's the device called?
What's the device called?
Okay.
Uh, that's the, the, the Nexus, the Nexus 5.
The Nexus 5.
It does, uh, it does speech to text?
Pixel 5.
Pixel 5 does speech to text, yeah.
With the, has a, has an exclusive application called the...
Pixel 5.
The Pixel 5 phone.
It has an exclusive application that only runs in the Pixel 5.
It's called, uh, Recorder.
It's called Recorder by Google.
And, uh, so it automatically transcribes any audio that I play it.
Uh, it will record and transcribe at the same time.
But it only runs on the Pixel 5.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But I mean, a lot...
What?
Oh.
Yeah, yeah, it'll, it'll...
Well, so, it, it can be played back from, it can be played back from the cloud.
You can just, but you can only make, make recordings and transcriptions on the phone itself.
So I could play, I could play back the file from another device.
And I could play back the transcription from another device.
But, um, but I can only make the transcriptions and the audio recordings with the Pixel 5.
So that is, that's part of their cell.
But, but you get the text file too.
Yeah, I get both.
I get the text and the audio.
That's awesome.
So it's, it's, I guess it's, it's useful to go back through, um, previous audio recordings
and just to get, or even videos and just to get a transcription started.
Um, the, the thing is that, um, the, you know, with any auto transcription, uh, you're
going to have, it's going to make mistakes and you're going to have to, have to sort of
like go through it and, and fix the mistakes manually.
But, uh, yeah, like, of course, but maybe it saves, maybe it saves, uh, a good chunk of
time and fingers.
Yeah, it does.
I just text the speech all the time on my Pixel 4.
Hmm.
Whatever I can.
And I, it obviously saves space.
Yeah.
Saves time.
Saves time, right.
Yeah.
Is the video halfway, two thirds, what?
It is, uh, about 40%.
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
So, it's, uh.
So, I'm gonna, I'm gonna get back to, um, to somebody who's waiting for me to call back.
Okay.
And, uh, then I'll watch the video and, and maybe I'll talk to you today, maybe tomorrow.
Sounds good.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
It was nice.
All right.
Take, take, have a, it's interesting.
Same, same here.
Talk to you later.
Okay, Micah.
Bye.
Ciao.
