=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0263y Toclose Frames Signals Calories
First recorded: 2021-06-22T02:45:16.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/7b86dd54-e791-4ebe-a93a-6903a6102146
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
I think that, um, I think that I should, I should, I should say this while I'm remembering it, which is that each frame of me, let's say if I'm a, say if I'm a movie, each frame of me is a, a computation, right?
And I don't really perceive that as a computation, because I, because, you know, with a computer, like, you print something, say, hello world, it prints, and then it stays as hello world, so it's obvious that it's a computation, it went through a process, it did it.
So, what I'm saying is that in each, if you could, if you could take 10 seconds of, of any moment that you're experiencing, and make it, and pretend it's a movie, but it's a movie from inside your eyes, but it's a movie.
Okay, so, what I'm saying is, like, each, each frame of that movie, each moment of that movie, let's say you can capture it at 240 frames per second, you could capture it at 60 frames per second, let's say, let's say you capture it at 10,000 frames per second, right?
Let's say it's a really fast movie. It's so fast, you don't even know that the movie itself is made up of individual frames, and that is, that's what I'm sort of proposing, is that I'm a computation, it means that my reality is sliced into individual frames, like a computer, and that the cells are rendering each frame one at a time, right?
Like, just like a 3D, it's like a display that you watch TV on, right?
So, it's like being a, it's like being a monitor. It's like your brain is a monitor, and it's rendering each frame by changing the pixels in that frame, right?
The pixels in that frame are adding up to the visual representations you see, the audio representations you see. That's part of it.
But your whole, it's not that your whole brain isn't just senses, right? There's a whole, like, internal, uh, internal operation happening that doesn't connect to the outside world, that doesn't, isn't connected to your senses.
There's a whole bunch of processing going on in your brain that's not connected to what's in the, what you're seeing and hearing.
You have your, you have your somatosensory cortex, uh, you have your visual cortex, you have your audio cortex, but these are the sensory, these are the, um, the cortical input, uh, areas.
These are the, um, the cortical, the sensory input cortices, sensory input cortices. Um, there's another, there's another area of the brain that's not receiving input from your senses, and that is the prefrontal cortex.
So here you have, you have, you have, you have, you have, you know, three, three, there's, if you divide your brain, if you divide your neocortex into four primary parts, you have the three sensory input areas, the three main sensory input areas, which are the, uh, the visual audio and the somatosensory.
So that's for touch and taste. And it blends with, it's like, it's heavily meshed with visual cortex, with the upper levels of the visual cortex.
And then you have hearing. But then, um, yeah, and, and so we have, part of our brain is rendering reality, okay?
But part of our brain is not, not rendering reality, it's just thinking about the renderings of reality, right?
It's just receiving parts of reality that are rendered by other parts of the brain, and then thinking about it.
Because it doesn't, it has to think about it because it's not directly connected to anything.
There's a part of our minds, a part of our mind that doesn't have any sensory input, and it has to take the patterns that it receives, and form a calculation from them, right?
It has to say, okay, well, what is, what is, what, what, basically, what is, um, what am I predicting, right?
It's sort of like, I'm, I'm predicting, uh, I'm predicting patterns that cause me to maintain my equilibrium the longest, right?
I mean, stay alive the longest, and reap, and do things like, you know, reproduce, uh, that's, that's part of one of the drives that I have, to say, okay, well, my, my, my cells want to maintain their equilibrium, but they also want to have offspring, they want to pass on, uh, life to another generation.
I think that is probably the best way to sum up, like, I feel like, you know, it was interesting, my parents had me when they were young, right?
So I grew up, and I knew my parents really, really well.
Like, I talked to them every day, I even, I even, uh, uh, stayed at their house, uh, for months at a time after, I, after I turned 18, after I moved out.
I came, I had come back, uh, at various times as a, as a young adult, in my early, uh, I would say, in my 30s, and spent months at their house, just to, uh, sort of get through different, different phases in my life, I guess.
I, you know, I would, you know, I would, you know, maybe need a change, and so, uh, yeah, when I was a young adult, when I was in my 30s, I would, I had my own, I had my own place many times, you know, moved out, uh, when I was 18, had my own place.
Uh, I lived in, I lived, I lived, I lived in many, I lived in different cities, uh, early on in the Southern California area.
Before, before, um, I lived in different cities, and I had jobs in different cities.
Um, I tried to get a lot of different, um, I tried to get, uh, jobs that would give me, uh, valuable work experience that I could take with me.
Because the ultimate goal, in my mind, at each job, was that, okay, I want to, I want to learn how to do something, but ultimately, I want to run my own company.
So, I'm going to go, and I'm going to get a job that lets me perform this role.
And then, in my next job, I'm going to try to get a different role.
And in each subsequent job, I'm going to try to get a different role, so that I know all the roles.
So that one day, I could start my own business, uh, where, but I would already understand all the roles.
Uh, that everyone has in a company, because I've worked, uh, in all these different roles.
And so, um, and, and, and so, in a sense, I have this, there's a plan, okay?
And as an organism, I have, like, okay, well, I'm looking for, I'm trying to think about, okay, well, how do I, the best chances for survival?
Well, I need a good plan, a good plan that is going to, uh, result in, in me being able to have the best life that I can, that I can get.
But based upon my, my, my intelligence and my, uh, willingness to work hard and my ability to adapt to circumstances and my connections, uh, that, and, that I make with other people.
And, and, and the, the, the social contracts that I make with other people and the business contracts that I make with other people.
In order to, um, build a great reputation around, uh, the work that I do.
So that I have long, so that I have long-term, uh, so I have, so I have in the long-term, like, this optimistic scenario.
Where life is, like, about moving towards the greatest number of the greatest optimistic scenarios that are possible.
So, like, you just, like, what are the, what is the greatest optimistic scenario that's possible for you?
And then what is one thing you could do today to take a step towards that?
Okay.
But why am I doing this?
It's because, uh, the organism is trying to predict what would be so, what would be so important from an emotional perspective.
Like, if you're really tied into your emotions, uh, they're very powerful.
And, uh, so if you can program your emotions and your goals to be in alignment, you know, together in a useful way.
So that the emotions are basically driving you to keep focusing on how you can accomplish it.
And they're driving you to be focused on accomplishing what you're focused on.
And they're driving you to be focused on the right things, but also driving you to be focused on accomplishing your goals.
And so you have this emotional desire to continue to do good work on your goals every single day.
And you get programmed like that.
You get programmed because it becomes tied in with the idea of happiness and, and, you know, and seeking happiness.
Because if you don't seek happiness, it's not, it's, it's, you know, because if you seek darkness, then you, and, uh, you find your way to darkness.
And if you seek happiness, then you find a way to happiness.
But you have to do it in a way that, um, where you realize that you are, you're not separate from the universe.
You are one with, uh, you're one with the fabric of reality.
Because, um, because, yes, you are a computer program, but so is everything else around you.
So is the earth.
So is, um, this planet.
This planet is a computer program.
Uh, yes, the entire planet is a computer program.
It's doing some really fantastic things.
There's like, there's life computer programs that have sprouted out of this planet computer program.
Right.
But, and these are all computer programs.
All the plants are computer programs.
They're 3D, they're 3D volumetric physical computer programs.
Right.
Where, where, if you break down what's happening at the cellular level, is that cells are constantly talking to each other.
They're talking to each other in my brain and body, in the human brain and body, but they're also talking, like, cells inside plants are constantly talking.
And that talking is the constant transmission of signals.
These signals can be, uh, electric signals.
They can be chemical signals.
They can be brainwave signals.
They, but, but what's particularly interesting is that these, is not only that these signals can transmit complex patterns, such as, uh, you can have cells that are, are remembering a problem and recognizing a problem and managing a problem.
And, uh, and so they need a certain type of cell to go in and solve that problem.
You know, in some cases they have, uh, cells that commit, that are sent to commit their, they basically, they, they, um, they self-terminate.
They're like, okay, we're going to go and this termination is going to help, uh, accomplish the goals of our, of the computer program.
Like, we're going to, um, it's going to send a lot of, uh, signals which cause a lot more of the computer program, a lot more of the cell culture, to pay attention and say, oh, wow.
Something really is serious is happening, uh, because one of the, because we've got all this, like, uh, debris from the cell that committed, uh, suicide.
And so, like, now we're all alert that shit needs to be, like, recognized.
And, like, there's this greater cellular awareness of, you know, maybe, maybe someone, maybe someone, they, um, they scratched themselves on a nail, okay?
Or poked themselves with, poked themselves in the, in the toe with a nail or something.
It's a little bit of blood.
Okay, so imagine you might have, like, this, uh, this, uh, you might have a cell that, that, um, is called, um, is called, uh, a caroteno site.
And the caroteno site is a cell that, um, it can, it can basically, like, recruit a lot of cells, or it can stop the recruitment of traveling immune cells.
It can, like, it can, like, direct traffic.
It's, like, this is, like, caroteno sites are, um, they're born from stem cells.
And the stem cells that come from within the hairs, from within your hair, your hair follicles.
Um, so caroteno sites are born from stem cells, and they might be inside the hair follicle, or they might be, like, in between your hair.
Um, and they move up from the deep to the top of the villi.
And the caroteno sites move through various layers of skin cells to the surface migration.
They undergo gradual maturation of this series of modifications that enable them to build more signals and receptors for complex decision-making.
Okay, so what I'm imagining is that, goddammit, I'm imagining that, so you've got your multiple frames playing out in a sequence.
Okay, um, so you've got, what happens is, you also have the fact that you can have oscillations, like, affect oscillations,
that are tempor, that are temporally, uh, uh, distal.
So, that could mean that you have an oscillation that where, okay, so let's say that you have, like, an alpha frequency, uh, oscillation that has a certain pattern that is, um, that has spatial and temporal characteristics that are unique identifiers for a specific pattern.
So, let's say, okay, so let's say, okay, so let's say, okay, so let's say that you are rotating, okay, so let's say that you're rotating in a chair, and, but when you look north, you see a yellow flower.
Okay, okay, but now you, now you rotate many times, okay, so you're going to rotate, uh, like, a thousand times, and you're going to become, like, intensely aware
of everything that is graphically true about your environment, so you're going to know, like, you're going to be able to, like, when you, so, when you close your eyes,
you're going to know, like, where the red flowers were, where the yellow flowers were, how high the red flowers were from the ground.
You're going to know, you're going to be able to just, like, see, like, how many leaves were on that tree, how many petals were on each flower.
Like, you'd be, you're able to see, like, the actual thing in your, in your mind with your eyes closed, because it's just been in, it's been imprinted so deeply in your mind, right?
So you're spinning around, and then your eyes are closed, but you're still seeing this image, okay?
So as you're spinning, there, you go back to that, what was north of you, was a yellow flower.
And so you say, okay, now you're, now we're turning you around, you're facing north, and, uh, what do you see above the fence?
It's a yellow flower.
And then, so you can have a temporal oscillation like that, where, where you're approaching, like, where something, like, a sequence begins,
and you know that at the end of the sequence, the yellow flower is going to appear, or you know that at the end of the sequence, the yellow flower might appear.
Like, so, then what happens is the sequence begins, but then the sequence that has been triggered, um, has a, has a temporal, there's, like, a temporal monitoring.
Something is keeping track of what stage that sequence is in, so that it knows when it's going to activate the yellow flower.
Like, oh, you're facing the yellow flower? Now we're going to render the yellow flower, right?
Like, oh, you're, you're facing the tree now. So now we're going to render the tree.
Oh, you're facing the ground. Now we're going to render the ground. Oh, you're facing a pole.
Now we're going to render the pole. So I'm in a park, okay?
I'm looking around, and, uh, as I turn, my brain knows to render the next area of the park, right?
It knows in a general way that, um, because it is filling in each moment with new information, but that new information, okay, is constructed from a lot of bits of information.
Um, and that means that, like, you know, you have blood vessels across your, across your, um, all over your eyes that are actually blocking the light that goes to your brain.
Your eyes are covered with blood vessels that you never see because your brain, uh, because your brain finds those blood vessels to be irrelevant.
They're not causing any, they're not causing any changes in your brain activity, right?
They're not registering because they're not, because there's no action that's happening with those blood vessels.
So they're not stimulating, uh, any part of your brain at all.
They're just, it's like the most boring thing, and your brain just tunes it out.
So what you see, though, it, however, is, is, is a computed image because that light, that light, you don't, because you have to make up the image of a tree from a lots of bits and pieces of the tree.
Because it's like, you're looking through, it's like the blood vessels in your eyes are, like, looking through a, uh, a fence with a lot of holes in it.
Okay, you're, you're, like, you're, like, your eyes are, like, looking through a fence with a lot of holes in it.
It's like, it's like, it's like you're, that'd be almost as if you had, like, it's either that, or it's like, um, or it's like your eyes are a bunch of little cameras, like, millions of little cameras.
But, like, it's because, because either way, like, you have to take bits of an image, and you have to stitch them together.
So when you look around in a park, you see this whole and complete park around you.
You don't see the fence of blood vessels that's in front of your eyes, okay?
So it is a sort of, like, um, we want to say that oscillation is causing, that a past oscillation is causing future oscillation.
It's not, yes, but it's, it's that you have the, the, the pattern is, um, it's playing back a sequence.
Or it is playing a sequence.
It's playing a learned sequence.
But the sequence is always, is, is going to attempt to fire.
It's going to be, uh, sort of live altered by what happens this time.
So it's like, oh, I had this experience before, I'm going to fire it this particular way.
But what happens, though, uh, is that, you know, like, if you've ever played Tetris, you play Tetris.
And, uh, the, the more you, if you play Tetris for 10 hours, then you, like, start to see Tetris.
And the, the, the, you know, try, yeah, try playing Tetris for 10 hours.
And you're just, like, you'll see Tetris patterns when you close your eyes and you try to sleep.
You know, I don't know how many hours it takes to start seeing Tetris, but I just remember doing that one time.
And I've heard that story from other people as well.
Like, like, it might be, it might be four hours or five hours or something, but, like, if you really play a game for a long, long time,
you're, the game, the imagery from the game will start to, to, uh, permeate your conscience.
Like, almost like your, your, um, your screen has a burn-in effect.
Like, as if the movie is still, it's, like, burned into the screen just because you were, because the screen was holding that image for too long.
Like, like, that's sort of, like, you know, it's, like, the image of Tetris becomes burned into your brain because it is, like, a screen.
Okay.
But, so, I guess we have to say that, um, but you have this ability to not just track, like, not just render and a pattern.
Like, I think in a Blade Runner, when they, when he, when the, when the robot was saying, was, you know, he had to say this thing and interlink, right?
I watched Blade Runner again, and when he, he's, like, he has, he has to be tested to make sure he's still a sane robot.
And, um, so he, he has to repeat this phrase.
And in between the phrases, he has to say, he has to say the words interlinked.
Interlinked.
Interlinked.
Right?
And that's so interesting because that is just, it's almost like, um, it, it's difficult to, like, as a metaphor.
Like, if you're going to connect together two ideas that are spatially separated.
okay so let's say I'm looking at a croissant at the grocery store and I'm
looking at hot fudge and I'm looking at a croissant and I'm looking at hot fudge
so now I've like interlinked these two concepts that were spatially separated in
the rendering stages at which they were rendered in the diagram of my mind so
they were spatially separated then you're like okay well how do I take
stuff that is rendered in a spatially separated way and interlink them
together right how do I yeah how do I connect the the data of you know
different like so like there's one thing like right now we're seeing with deep
learning with volumetric understanding volumetric representation that
or it's called 3d semantic segmentation when I know that all the pixels
belong to a chip and all these pixels belong to a bag and all these pixels
belong to a box and all of these pixels belong to a price tag it is this is 3 for
five dollars that's the club price okay I'm at the I'm at a grocery store and
so we have to think about the computer is doing now it's saying okay well although
every like everything that comes in is a is a hat you see we see you're seeing it one frame at a time
okay but then you're able to connect multiple frames together like seeing something over time in order to
have like in order to gain like sort of a concept of of what those particles
mean so those particles could represent a puff of smoke they could represent water
those particles represent represent liquid like syrup in a like in a bottle and we
wrote and you turn the bottle of syrup the particles of liquid syrup they just move
around inside inside inside the bottle I just think of like half-life Alex when
you're like turning the bottle right but those particles like so your brain is it's
like okay it's like your brain is able to react in an extremely precise way to
representing what is around it based upon a deep analysis of the data coming through the internal
signals because it it's like it's like data is passing into you and but you're but it's being
assembled in a computational way which means you're only getting so for example you're only getting bits
a color of light of signals but they're but they're translated into into electric signals almost right
away like the the photons bounce off of your eyes and then electrical signals travel inward okay so in
almost immediately like the computation is happening right computation is happening in which you're saying
which there's just like um there's this conceptual awareness that's in work okay and it's like how
it's like you know I can learn one concept like this is a tortilla this is a tortilla in a bath
okay and I can learn another concept and these are eggs okay and there's a lot of information about eggs
all right um there's a lot of data to know about the properties of eggs what they what they what are they
where do they come from how are they made what animal
represent yeah this is the fact that they are from chickens they're from an animal that's that's
interesting that's information that's information they're kind of round and you can you can hard
boil them they're spherical but you see there's a lot of like information concepts that have to be
learned but they can range from like very simple like like this very simple concept is is um you know
like like just lean if you're in the grocery store just lean towards any item on the shelf okay
and grab something like I just picked up a container
and uh container has food in it right and I'm glad it's very simple but that's at the stage where
deep learning is at with 3d semantic segmentation okay the computer is saying that
that all of these particles belong to the concept of a container and these particles and this is in the
this in the container but a container with food in it because it's it's what it's doing is saying
that all that all this stuff that is identified as uh being together like for example that that
the the there's food there's right there's there's symbols on the top of this container
I can see it's transparent so I can see the food okay uh this is 200 calories
actually I think I might buy this that looks really good this I'm looking at southwestern seafood
foods southwestern style seafood salad okay so I think I might buy this food in 12 eggs
I this is 90 calories oh I know the serving size is 200 calories per one half cup of serving
so there's about three servings in it so it's actually this is actually 600 calories
no it's actually that's actually a lot this is uh 250 calories but again that's actually 700
700 uh yeah 750 calories um that that's boring I'm like I thought this was 200 calories no it's 600
oh shit that's way less interesting uh this shirimi looks just looks good uh simply shirimi
crap two pieces is 70 calories this one has uh per container 200 calories all right
that is more in alignment with what I'm interested in so let's spend 200 calories
on the shirimi on the sashimi sounds good to have like tortillas right that sounds good
but then these end up being like what 140 calories per tortilla
if there was an if there was a um
