=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0272y Millisecond Calcium Channels
First recorded: 2021-06-04T15:13:20.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/8a2ebcd7-cf3d-402c-aff1-cad5979bcab9
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
So the flow of information in the brain at the 29.45 second mark. He says the cell is at rest. When the cell is at rest.
So let's actually start at the 19.06 mark. The presynaptic K-potassium modifies the action potential amplitude, or APSYN, which determines the strength of the synaptic signal, including the amplitude of the postsynaptic response.
That leads to how many vesicles can be released per action potential, which is usually between 0 and 3. I guess it could go to 5. But the average number is 2.6.
When a cell is at rest, it's at minus 55 millivolts, or minus 40 millivolts. And the spike happens, where it shoots way up. It's going to shoot the action potential.
It's letting a bunch of sodium in. All those positive charges coming in, and it's staying in the membrane, which is basically shooting the voltage up.
And then you have the voltage-sensitive channels. That's like the positive feedback loop. It gets positive. So it opens to more sodium channels.
They're voltage-sensitive decoding channels. So as it gets through negative 40, it's like, okay, we can open.
So it's like positive feedback loop. Now there's tons of sodium in, and it's just shooting up, up, up, up. So it's going closer to 0. And then 10, 20, it goes up to positive 40 millivolts.
But what happens there is you have these potassium channels, these K channels, that open and start doing the opposite.
And the reason why you're thinking, wait, this is positive. Wouldn't that be more positive current? Yes.
Wouldn't that be more positive current? Yes, except there's a gradient.
And so now, while there's more sodium outside the neuron than there is inside the neuron, there's way more potassium inside the neuron than outside the neuron.
So if you're going to open a potassium channel, the positive charge is going to go the other way and basically end up with a negative charge.
It would be like a negative charge is entering the cell, although it's positive leaving.
So that potassium K current is hyperpolarizing the cell back to where it was.
And it even overshoots a little bit, and that's called the after hyperpolarization.
But the timing of these things come on are so synchronized, they're so fast, it results in a spike that lasts less than a millisecond.
So these potassium currents start shooting up, and before they're even done shooting up, I've said that backwards,
the sodium currents start shooting up, the voltage of the cell.
And then even before it's done shooting up, the potassium currents have turned on and started shooting it back down
to the point where you just get this super quick spike, and then it goes back down.
So now the result of the spike, spike transmits down the axon, which at the very tip, which at the very tip is where the vesicles are.
And at the very tip of the axon, you have these calcium channels.
And calcium is something that needs to come into, some calcium is one of the things that,
where there's like a gazillion times more outside the cell than inside the cell.
So if a calcium channel opens, the force that's shoving the calcium in the cell is just like the strongest you're going to get.
But these calcium channels on the very tip of the axon, they are voltage-gated, and they're not going to open unless it's a super positive charge.
Oh, it's a super positive charge, yeah.
They only open during a spike.
They only open if it's a positive voltage, so the calcium channels only open during a spike.
So that split second, that's one millisecond of a spike, that finally reaches the tip, the tip of the axon, gets this calcium to come in.
And when the calcium comes in, it binds to something called synaptotagmin.
Synaptotagmin is what the calcium binds to.
It basically shoves the vesicle into the membrane and allows the neurotransmitter, it allows the neurotransmitter to spit out into the synapse.
And that's the formation of neural communication.
So we're talking about, if you mess with the potassium so that the,
so that a split one second millisecond millivoltage that reached the end of the axon allows the calcium to come on.
Now, if you mess with the potassium, that means you don't, it doesn't come on as fast as it would normally.
And so what you're doing is spreading the action potential instead of just being one millisecond, it's longer.
So maybe two or three milliseconds.
Not sure.
But it could last as long as 10 milliseconds.
No, it doesn't.
It's maybe a lot shorter than that.
Maybe one or two or three milliseconds.
It's going one millisecond to two milliseconds or five milliseconds.
So this is just the amount of time that it stays very positive when the calcium will be let in.
