=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0274y Overnight good ideas Neurons Choline Walmart
First recorded: 2021-06-03T16:33:34.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/41dbe54e-5225-40a7-88b6-5f82edfff0b8
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
And it's not just the detection of coincidence, but also the detection of breaks and coincidences.
So you can have coincidence patterns that are very regular, but then if there's a change, if that coincidence stops happening, that's when you notice it.
Because if it's very regular, then maybe you tune it out.
But if the coincidence stops happening, so it's actually not a coincidence detection, that's a change detector.
It's going to be detected either by new coincidences or new patterns, or basically by new patterns.
So it takes many neurons to register what a single neuron has seen.
And because a neuron transmits what it sees in terms of how many neurons it talks to when it talks,
whether it's, am I going to, like, continue to oscillate every 10 seconds, or am I going to oscillate every 11 seconds, or every 12 seconds, or every 13 seconds?
Right? Right? Wait. That's not right.
So, no, no, no, am I going to continue to oscillate every...
Because what I'm saying is the oscillation is changing. I know, it's oscillation is changing.
That's what I'm saying.
But I'm also saying that those are two different things.
So the oscillation is changing, and the transmitting.
So it's frequency change, which is time.
And it's spatial change, which is, like, the two different ways the neuron can change.
Holy shit.
That's a multiplier, because it's not four bits.
That's four bits times the...
So if you have five bands of frequencies, okay, let's say we have delta, theta, alpha, beta, and gamma,
and then we have high gamma, so we have six bands of frequencies.
Or seven, you know, from zero...
It's really from, what, 0.002 hertz, all the way up to 600 hertz, right?
And anything in between.
We have all these different phases.
Phase oscillations.
So we can register any phase, and it can affect 0, 1, 2, or 3 neurons simultaneously.
Actually, that's not right.
So it's more like it affects either 10, 20, 30, or 40 neurons.
Plus it's going to fire regularly.
It's going to fire regularly, no matter what.
Let's say that when it fires, it's either going to fire 0, 1, 2, or 3.
So that would mean that the neuron actual potential sometimes fires and transmits 0 to neurotransmitters.
That would be interesting.
That would be equivalent to not firing.
Because if it fires every 10 seconds, is it firing like a 1, 2, or 3 every 10 seconds?
Or is that a 0?
Because maybe there's like this state of 0, and then you can fire as 1, 2, or 3 every 10 seconds?
1, 2, or 3.
But that 10 seconds could change to 11 seconds, 12 seconds, 13 seconds, or 12 seconds.
It could change as hertz from 2.002 hertz.
So 2 up to 600 hertz.
So it could change in oscillation there.
Maybe I'm going to fire very slowly, or fire very fast.
I hit 1, 2, or 3.
Why are you at 30?
I do this idea.
It's like, yeah, I could fire really fast and hit 30 every time.
Or I could fire really fast and just hit 10 every time.
If you're a super weak, or, um, slow frequency but strong.
Boom.
Frequency but weak.
Frequency but strong.
So you have, like, high frequency.
The other neurons are recognizing, they're necessary to recognize the amplitude and the frequency
that's being transmitted.
A bunch of neurons to recognize what a neuron is recognizing.
Okay, so, a neuron detects a certain amplitude and frequency.
Each neuron is detecting, and the microcolumn is considering what each neuron has detected,
because it's transmitting, turn from spatial frequency.
Spatial.
So, it's kind of like, um, okay, let's just keep an incoming census, and you're creating
a representation.
Then that's creating another representation.
And every time you go past from one layer to another, the layer that is, I see one neuron
that is representing the information that it's seeing.
And, but it's communicating devil's spatial patterns.
So, it's communicating what it's seeing, and what it's seeing.
So, it's like a movie, it's like a, it's like a movie player inside VR, where it has
textures, it's got textures over time.
So, a movie player in VR has textures over time.
Um, alright, so you're just playing a sequence of textures, alright, so, like, each neuron
is playing a sequence of textures.
That reference and textures represent what was fired below, but, here's the thing.
It's only, it's not connected, so it's, so it's looking for a certain sequence of textures.
Okay?
I'm going to probably see a certain sequence.
And so, if it fires, then that means that it's part of a sequence that represents another
sequence that receives.
So, when it fires, it fires as part of the whole group of cells that are firing.
Let's say it's deviation from this normal routine.
Deviation is like a pencil mark.
If all these neurons are deviating, so we have this pencil mark.
And all the pencil marks together, they add it to a picture, it's detected by another
neuron, by another group of neurons.
So, they all detect a different angle on the picture.
So, it's like, okay, so it's like, it's like one layer of neurons that becomes a representative
of the previous layer of neurons.
So, in that sense, the first layer represents the picture, and then the layer behind that
represents the, the, the picture that the first layer represents.
And the layer behind the, the, the first two layers represents the picture of the first
two layers.
And so, the picture is like replicated in, in, in, with each subsequent layer.
Okay?
But the way each subsequent layer recognizes that information is a little bit different.
It becomes, um, a compressed representation.
And it becomes distilled.
So, with each layer, like, the stuff that is actually, uh, truly, that object becomes crystallized
and deduced.
And the stuff that that object is, it becomes reduced from noise, right?
So, like, let's say the three layers are just noise.
And the object emerges at a higher level because, as it, as it moves through, let's say the object's
pattern, it moves through, or it becomes, it becomes cleaned up.
Because the things that are not truly that object, they don't pass deep into, into the, uh, matrix.
Only things that are actually that object pass deep into it.
Because they keep getting registered.
Because they're the most consistent.
That consistency helps the recognition of what the object is.
As opposed to what the object is and does it move around.
Because it's the most consistent thing, it get, it travels the furthest through the, through
the matrix in terms of what gets replicated.
So the brain, the brain begins to know what that actually does.
And how it's distinguished from the rest of the world.
Because it's, it's triggering multiple layers.
And so the multiple layers are, like, it's like everything in your space is made up of balance.
The fan represents, the 3D fan represents multiple layers, and it happens to fire at the same
time.
And if that moves closer to me, that means that the image of the brain is different, like,
so let's say, like, let's say that every pixel, represented to two.
Let's say that every pixel of the fan are, because we know that even though a neuron will fire,
you're gonna have a lot of neurons, you're gonna have a thousand neurons,
it's like, okay, it's like all the neurons represent the cop, uh, parts of the coffee cup,
well, each of the neurons is recognizing the coffee cup, specifically, it's like you're
representing, specifically, it's recognizing the temple spatial pattern.
The feature detectors, I'm gonna say that here, is that you're gonna have, uh, each neuron is
going to transmit, transmitters, right?
So it's going to affect a different number, one, two, or three.
It's gonna, it's gonna, it's gonna, it's gonna, it's gonna affect one, two, or three, layer
one, two, or three.
Receive patterns, when it receives a certain pattern, it's gonna transmit a frequency to
a different area.
So, it depends, it could transmit to a larger area, which means a lot of neurons could activate,
or a middle amount, or the least amount.
So, technically, like, that could vary, like, it could do, I could do, you could do, like,
a, yeah, so it's like, um, an A, B, C.
So, like, you get three letters, A, B, and C, so you can have a sequence that's A, A, A,
B, B, B, or C, C, or you can have, like, an A, B, A, A, A, C, C, and you can have
C, B, A, B, A, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, C, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B, B
I've been trying to do like a lot of walking today yeah so I was thinking I
could take the DOGs out for the initial part and then bring them back bring them
back here but I can't take them out for the entire walk because I might be
walking for a long time yeah the smart drugs yeah it's legal because it it
accelerates my choline uptake which is why it improves the memory but if I
don't replace the choline with more choline then I become then basically the
period of like of amped up intelligence gets followed by a period of reduced
intelligence but that you mitigate that by taking choline at the same time you take
the pill it's like you're using up your supply of choline faster and if you
replace it then you continue to have a supply of choline in which you but you
if you use up your supply of choline you don't take it I was gonna finish the smoothie but I am like
I'm full so I don't know what to do I can't finish it my stomach is full I didn't realize it's like
bigger than my stomach Joey come here it was actually um one of the dog plates that
they eat with and using that to scoop it up the poop grab two dog plates scoop up
the poop and then put that in the plastic bag and seal it they're cheap they're cheap
these are all reused plastic bags but the dog plates are cheap so you could you could reuse the dog
plates too you could take the dirty dog plates and use those to increase your uptake of
choline so that means you'll use your your brain your brain will use this choline faster and so
for that time your brain will have better memory and better performance right the
choline I think you can I was thinking I was looking at trying to see if they had
choline at Target I don't know if I found it or not let me look I can Austin why not
drive to Austin and back loop six ten four it's suggesting the Austin store the
Austin store yeah there was a zip code again seven oh I found it fifteen fifteen so
they have like prenatal vitamins but these are for bait these are for pregnant mothers
but they have choline in them so they're just vitamins it's like vitamin d3 vitamin b12
vitamin k1 k2 choline this is acceptable it's just a vitamin product and it's ten
bucks there's nothing really prenatal about it just a package of vitamins anybody good
good for pregnant women we're good for anybody actually they're good for you good for everything
are you seeing these people just kidding this Walmart thing hang on a second
yeah yeah you're distracting me for no reason you're like hey can you look up
something at Walmart hey can you look at the trees hey give me a second let me
look at the one thing that you suggested before you ask me to look at something
else you're distracting me don't drive my attention somewhere like hey Micah look at
this hey Micah look at that hey Micah look at this like wait a second I'm not done looking at the
last thing I'm trying to look at both at the same time I'm like looking at the
street and the reading Walmart at the same time which is funny like why am I trying to
do both at the same time so I like the second one because it has DHA or Omega 3 DHA and Omega 3 is
probably one of the most important things you should know about I don't know if you're
qualified to disagree the thing about my diet that people don't appreciate is that
I'm getting is that I've been I've been spending vitamins for like you know since
I was getting I was getting really good health results in 2010 right really good
so I lost 10 pounds I was eating the kosher's oats oatmeal every morning right and so I was getting
this high fiber slow carb but I wasn't building muscle but I was doing incredible math exercise
like the oats sustained me to do incredible math exercise so I lost weight but I didn't build muscle
because I didn't have the coaching so I'd almost like to have a I mean I can use the microwave in the
fridge in the common area of the building right or you just rent like a garage space to someone
like basically a garage space but it's like you have a big storage facility and if they fail to pay
then that stuff goes up to auction right and that would be a good space I mean a good business
because then you'd have security 24 7 you'd have huge spaces for yourself right so you'd be able
to rent out these huge spaces for other people but you'd also have huge spaces for yourself you'd have
your own like sort of like um on the second level you'd have your own like studio like your own like
house so you'd have and you'd have like you know so you could see you could have like security cameras
all over your facility so you could see them from your own house you'd have your own like like giant
space on top of the facility that's what I'm gonna imagine people did that no you have to build it
I'm talking about like a uh it's a place that's like up to the fire code why did you build new
property yeah what I just described is not what people did in Oakland that was like a fence that
was like an attack on my idea it's like if someone's building a sandcastle and you come over
and you just push it over that's that's what you did metaphorically speaking you're like yeah well
someone took your good idea you said there's a bunch of warehouses you said there's a bunch of
I just described my fantasy idea and you're like oh yeah someone did your fancy idea and they all
died okay I'm like no I that you just like insulted me like you just pushed over my my metaphorical
sandcastle you're like the kid who comes over and says oh you built a sandcastle yeah right
okay sorry I'm a downer well your fantasy sucks that's when people die okay
debbie downer okay you think you you think that's a good idea well I heard that that's when
right now they have a lot of offices spaces because a lot of companies moved out right
but when they moved out those offices needed to those companies need to stick their stuff in storage
so a warehouse could probably be bought for cheap in san francisco
with two with like um way cheaper than a house a warehouse and then the warehouse itself
could be turned into like a storage space where these companies need to store their stuff
but if they don't pay the bill then uh what happens is the stuff needs to be there's like companies
that will buy the lot wholesale and what the companies buy like they'll buy like a whole bunch of stuff
that the that um a warehouse can't store anymore and they'll get shipped to the east coast and then
it'll be off it'll be auctioned off but there's like whole businesses that buy like junk that people
were soaring that those people stop paying for if a business you know goes out of business it gets
they're like basically like they're not like they get they sell it to people who sell it
and so yeah like if a gym goes out of business like what that's what happened to my to my gym
my gym went out of business actually they were evicted they were evicted and so they sold all their
stuff yeah and um and my lockers went to this warehouse and i went and chased down my stuff at this
warehouse and they made me come back the next day and but i eventually got my stuff out of my locker
which included like my backup hard drives and stuff but the point is that i was like wow okay so
that's what happens when uh if a business goes down in san francisco you know it's not like you're
gonna like move all your gym equipment to your home right it's not like you're gonna rent another
office um you know at um at the turn of a key if you're like if your business is evicted or if you
have to shut if you like if you're a big company and you have to shut down an office because of
covid because you don't want to have small offices anymore right then you send and all your stuff
gets sent it gets picked up by truckers by movers and moved to a warehouse and um and the thing is
that the warehouse itself pays for the um where the cost of the property like the storage the company's
amount that companies are paying to store stuff that pays for the property in san francisco so the
property is like paying for itself or the business that's there it's like a business underneath
that pays for the um for the property to itself but so i was so i was thinking that in the long term i'd
like to um what a better a more interesting business would be would like be like a cloud source
business right where you just you just um you just have like hard drives like arrays of hard drives
and people are paying to store uh a virtual copy of their of their data it's like a backup they make
like a backup on your server and then they pay you a month to store their data on your server that's
actually a good business at my all the companies that are doing like cloud storage are making some
of them it's like it's like it's like an insurance type of business because you're just storing it
you're just like you're doing something that doesn't require like any mechanical power and it's
just collecting money that's it like there's no work you're just like yeah you're just receiving
a check to run a computer on a piece of land that's a good business i want to be in that business
cloud storage because then your hard drive is just printing money and everything the more hard drives
you have you're just they're all your hard drives are just printing money because they're just
storing data it's like people people say um the fmri machine just prints money so universities will
only buy fmri machines yeah yeah uh mri machines fmri fmri i just mean mri the big magnetic machine
that they use for body scanning well those machines they just print money you buy it and it just prints
money but that's the sort of like that's what the cloud business is right now that's why microsoft
is like yeah we're gonna like we're gonna get to the point where we're serving cloud instances
of microsoft windows to people on every platform so you can use microsoft windows on your phone on
your tablet on your ipad then we're gonna stream cloud instances of microsoft windows because it's
just like that's printing money if you're in if your business is supplying a hard drive that people
are paying rent to then that's a lot more money than showing someone a copy of princess one time
you're renting windows instead of selling windows but people say people see the value because oh yeah
well i'm storing my stuff on the cloud it's accessible on all my devices i've got windows on every
computer i no longer have to have a powerful computer because like all the power is in the cloud
like i can run the fastest games i can run ray tracing and give ray tracing
a cloud server no but it's um it's it's uh it's something that you do and it's like you start off like a
you start off like a small uh a small cloud server and as you grow in clients you grow in hardware
it's like it's like a it's like a business that can grow from like a small business to like a big
business you need you just need to start with like one client like one business like okay we're gonna
like i'm gonna have one client i'm gonna set up a cloud server for them then you go after another
client and then you have a hundred clients and at some point you'll have you know you have enough
money from all of your clients to where you can uh you can buy a bigger facility and that's how you'd
have to do it if you don't have like a million dollars to invest up front you'd have to start
small that's not my big business idea my big business idea is different let me get out my uh
notepad so i can record what i'm saying um okay here we go so my um
