=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0286y Psychiatry Brain Amygdala Conversation
First recorded: 2021-05-15T21:22:34.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/a8aec23a-0184-4cda-8d10-c9742b94a5f6
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
...layers of a building on top of each other, and they can actually, the data can interact from one floor to the next.
Very nice. Thank you so much for that, Georgie. Rehan, do you want to continue? And Joyce and Sebastian, we're just making a little bit of time, getting to know each other, get more connection, reading each other's bios, and also making a brief introduction of yourself, where you're from, and why you're interested in the aging society.
So, Rehan, will you please continue? And after that, Joyce and Sebastian, welcome to you both.
Thanks, Susie. My name's Rehan Mahmood. I have been an adult for issues that conflict with each other and make the case for her care very complex in general.
And so I've been very fascinated with the aging population because I am in need of resources that help make my job easier, considering I'm a, I work, I founded a business.
I spent half my time doing that, and so it's very hard to be everywhere at once.
So my passion now is to research this space, both for solutions for caregivers themselves and understanding the design choices that we are using to build age tech and care tech,
so that we can help society at home rather than in the provider.
Thank you very much for having me, and I hope that I'm able to give you guys some interesting kind of foundational, fundamental information that will spark a beautiful conversation this afternoon.
Yeah, let's see where it takes us.
Well, so psychiatry itself would be just the latest evolution of, I guess, what started out as a psychoanalysis with Freud and then psychoanalysis with Jung,
and then I guess drugs were discovered that could actually influence people's well-being.
And I assume that was the birth of psychiatry.
Do I have that right, or maybe you correct me if that's not quite the right story?
Well, psychiatry is a big field.
You know, I actually, right now in front of me, I have the DSM in front of me.
And the DSM, for those that you guys don't know, is a diagnostic statistical manual.
It's got its lovers, and it's got its haters, but like it or not, across the world in courtrooms and in mental health clinic, it's kind of the Bible.
And it gives us a shared language in talking about mild, moderate, and severe psychiatric illness.
But what strikes me most about the DSM, you know, you have kind of everything from, you know, fear of spiders to very severe illnesses like schizophrenia,
and you have like parent-child relational problems, you have personality disorders, you have obsessive-compulsive disorder,
you have separation anxiety disorder, you have ADHD, you have memory.
Memory, and what really strikes me about the DSM is, of course, it highlights a dysfunction aspect,
but really what strikes me about the DSM these days is the brain sure is doing a lot of stuff.
And in order to, quote, be normal, you know, the brain is really doing a lot of things that allow us to be normal.
And you don't really get to see what it's doing until one or two of these little things breaks.
And then you really get a sense of really how much the brain is doing.
So the history of psychiatry, really, in neurology, I would say, in psychiatry, used to be one specialty.
And Freud was trained as a neurologist.
There are some great other psychiatrists and neurologists called Kreppelin and other guys who were the early members of our field.
And that goes pretty far back.
That goes back even to the 1800s and 1700s.
But, you know, when you're talking about something like, you know, schizophrenia versus a personality disorder, there's such a range.
And so psychiatry was kind of, modern psychiatry, I guess you can say, drives that you can say exist throughout the animal kingdom, right?
It's not just in human beings.
And what we think drives the neuroanatomical basis that appears to be driving these areas are the limbic system.
And, you know, things like distinctly human emotions like affection, pride, guilt, like envy, resentment, pity, that we think may be best represented as learned emotions that are represented more in the cortex, the cerebral cortex.
So, you've got this limbic system, which is a pretty ancient system that, you know, we share with a lot of the animal kingdom.
And this is on a very basic level.
There are a lot of people that will kind of agree with this, disagree with this, but this is kind of very traditional thinking.
And then you have, like, the cortex, the cerebral cortex, that plays a very important role in regulating these kind of drives.
And in the last several decades, we've discovered several neural pathways.
And these neural pathways, to some degree, are regulated by neurotransmitters such as serotonin, dopamine, norepinephrine, acetylcholine, and GABA.
And that's kind of the general picture of what happens.
And, of course, there is also the cerebellum, which is a very important part of the brain that's a part of balance and other functions of cognitive function as well.
It doesn't play just a role in our physical function of the body.
And, of course, there's the pond, there's the brain stem.
And then the brain stem is vital.
That's where all, like, the cranial nerves are, like the gateways for the cranial nerves are.
That's where all the breathing centers are.
So the brain is a complex organ, which has, you can say, kind of five or six different parts to it.
And those kind of operate in an orchestrated manner through circuits and neurotransmitters and kind of electrical rhythms that kind of produce the human experience of a mind and experience.
Yeah, now, so if when things of, you know, neuroanatomy, the brain, maybe going from the outside in, like an onion peeling off the layers, you've got the cerebral cortex that you mentioned on the outside that sort of looks like a cauliflower that everyone sees.
And inside that is the basal ganglia, which is associated with habit formation and motivation and be implicated in addiction.
And then I guess the limbic system would be sort of even lower level than that.
And it's just an interconnected set of regions that's not really, doesn't have a coherent structure.
They're just sort of these interconnected nuclei.
Now, one model out there, sort of a controversial model, I think it's more popular in pop psychology maybe than in science,
is this triune brain theory from Paul McClelland, who I think was actually at UCSF in the 1950s, when he sort of proposed that framework.
The idea of, you know, the reptilian brain, the idea of the psyched limbic system, and then you have, I think he had the mammalian brain,
and then, am I missing a layer, or was then there the primate brain maybe over the mammalian brain?
Does anyone in psychiatry talk about the triune brain, or is that not really a part of psychiatry even these days?
Well, I mean, it depends on where in psychiatry you're talking about.
Like, if you're at, like, you know, an academic center, and it's, like, your second year residency,
and you're really getting back to the basics, then some of these topics come up.
But, you know, in the kind of day-to-day affairs, I'm not even talking about in a clinic, but, you know,
in an average conference or whatever, there's just no time to talk about this stuff,
because there's so many pressing issues and so much new information on, for example,
how to treat the conduct disorder in the setting of schizophrenia, which medications are most helpful,
that there's really not much time to talk about whether this is a, you know,
is kind of the primary reason of how this came about.
We just don't have a lot of time for it.
So this doesn't come up too often, except in kind of more, you know, kind of university settings,
in non-clinical settings.
Yeah, thanks.
And I also want to take a moment now to introduce Johan John.
Johan, you're on the faculty of Boston University.
I think your focus area is computational neuroscience, as I understand it,
and you've done some work on the limbic system and psychiatry,
but can you just introduce yourself a little bit or kind of correct what I've gotten wrong?
Yeah, that was right.
I'm at Boston University.
I'm a research assistant professor, and I work in a neuroanatomy lab.
We mainly work, we look at connections between different brain areas in the primate brain,
but it's monkey brain, the botach.
And I'm a computational modeler, so the anatomists in the lab identify connections,
say, between parts of the prefrontal cortex and parts of the limbic system,
such as the amygdala or the parts of the hippocampus.
And part of what I do is create software models, circuit models that probe in a simple way
how these areas interact to produce different kinds of behavior,
including simple versions of emotion-related behavior.
And of course, you can't talk about emotion in the brain without talking about the amygdala,
which people associate with fear and anger,
but I think that's probably not the whole story.
Johan or Sandeep, do you want to comment on kind of the bigger picture of what the amygdala is about?
Well, yeah, the amygdala has definitely been long associated with negative emotions like fear and anger,
but it's increasingly clear that it's a big part of positive emotions too,
and one way to think about it is it has kind of a gateway for tagging the importance of stimuli
and whether those stimuli are, you know, food or a threat.
But very often it's the case that there's a kind of priority map
that evolution, natural selection has kind of chosen,
which is you probably have to deal with threats before you can settle down to eat or find a mate.
So for that reason, some of the things that activate the amygdala the most
are fear and threats and dangers and things like that.
But it's also very important for being positively motivated to do things
and to identify things as worthy of pursuing.
So, yeah, I mean, yeah, the amygdala, I mean, any of these brain structures,
you know, if we say a word like the amygdala or we say basal ganglia or something,
while it's important to try and specify its exact function,
the brain doesn't quite work where, you know, it's doing just one thing.
So it's really, really important to get out of that kind of thinking.
It's really a complex set of circuits and rhythms
that are always kind of pulsing and working together.
But the amygdala has a lot of importance.
Amygdala is an important, like, a connecting structure of the brain
that's a relay station for many, many, many other parts of the brain.
It's important in emotional learning, reward.
It's important in memory.
There's folks that, you know, kind of, you know,
even like sexual orientation and social interaction.
There's case studies that it might be implicated in certain political orientation,
these kind of things.
So the amygdala is a very important structure of the brain
that I would say is important in memory, reward, emotional learning, and connections.
And it's not about it being positive or negative in the sense
if you have unhealthy, heightened response to threat,
then you are going to have more pain and suffering.
But if you have very, you know, appropriately modulated response,
amygdala response to threat,
then, you know, you're going to have,
you're probably going to enjoy better psychological and mental health.
So it's one of those things.
It's definitely not what I would look at as a negative or a positive function.
It's more about regulating within,
whether it's appropriately regulated or not appropriately regulated.
Thanks.
And that might be actually a good segue now
to talk about neurotransmitter systems.
So, of course, the main sort of signal functioning of the brain
orients around glutamate and GABA.
This is the excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitter.
And this is part of just how the brain communicates with itself,
all the neurons communicate with each other that way.
But then you have these neuromodulators,
things like serotonin and dopamine,
and the others you mentioned,
acetylcholine and norepinephrine.
And serotonin seems to get a lot of attention in psychiatry.
Maybe that's because of the success of Prozac
and the related SSRIs,
so a lot in others.
How does psychiatry think about serotonin?
What do you think is going on with why so many psychiatric drugs
have a serotonin component?
Well, I mean, one of the reasons is it's, I think, it's, I mean, it's, you know,
serotonin, histamine, dopamine, and norepinephrine and acetylcholine
are, you know, kind of the major neurotransmitters.
I mean, there are other ones.
Those are the kind of mono means.
But that's a good question.
I mean, why does serotonin, I mean, it's, you know,
it's been implicated in, in, uh, uh, I think Prozac, they, they, uh, you know,
you know, Prozac was the first kind of wonder drug of psychiatry.
I guess you could call Haldol a wonder drug of psychiatry if you'd like.
I don't know if many people would agree, but, um, uh, but, uh,
ask that question again, Paul,
because I don't know if I'm going to be able to answer that in the way you like it.
Well, it might be a question.
It doesn't have an answer.
I think, uh, it probably isn't really fully understood what serotonin does
and why it is so, um, yeah, I guess I could go ahead and say a couple of things,
but yeah, but it's true that if you ask any neuroscientist what serotonin does,
you're going to get, uh, you know, drugs and, and the S because it's really quite a mystery
compared to even, uh, dopamine and, uh, acetylcholine and norepinephrine.
But recently, uh, a colleague of mine, uh, uh, at the university of, uh, Montreal,
Paul, Paul Jacek, uh, he's recently written a paper on sort of thinking about behavior
from an evolutionary perspective.
And he was talking about the evolution of these systems.
And one idea is that serotonin may have initially been involved in, uh, I believe it was satiety.
Uh, don't quote me on that, but I think that that was one of it,
like whether you've eaten enough food.
It's interesting to think of things that happen, you know, much, much later down the line
than vertebrate evolution in terms of.
