=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0291y Mask Glasses Passwords
First recorded: 2021-05-14T09:30:29.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/e467b79b-5270-4fa0-ab96-bec576b79a37
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Okay, so I'm imagining a story script where, uh, it's a guy who, he's a killer. Like an evil person. Like, he's, like, blending in as a real person. He's constantly, like, money with houses and kidnapping and hand over all their assets in exchange for keeping their lives. He's like, yeah, you can go back to your life. You just have to give us all your assets.
You have to give us all your passwords. You've got to log into all your, all your websites. If you need the main names, you have to hand them to us. You can leave it on your hand to us. Whatever you own, you have to hand it over. You have to, I need to make sure this is being recorded.
All right. So, back then, when I was writing the book, uh, I'm actually writing the book right now.
So, I'm making this note for later. So that you can know, for me, what it was like right now to make this book.
Because, at this point, like, I keep flip-flopping on what I want to call it, what I want it to be about.
Um, I think that I had this incredible, like, uh, I think that I have these incredible ideas.
There's, there's too many of them.
And, uh, my focus is, like, so split that what I'm actually ended up doing is sort of, like, what I'm randomly, I don't really have a plan.
I'm not doing things in a planned way.
Right? I'm doing them in, like, an unplanned way.
Like, I'm sort of accidentally, uh, thinking of, my thought is not organized.
I don't have a plan. Like, okay, when am I going to be thinking about this?
When am I going to be thinking about that?
And because it's, like, chaotic, I don't know when I'm going to get back to whatever project it was.
So there's, like, the project to, like, update the different website.
I'm going to take the 3DS class, the project to write the book.
I don't know when I'm going to get back to those projects.
You see what I'm saying?
Because I don't have a plan for how I spend my day.
I think in some instances, people want to have a workplace to go to.
Because that workplace is giving them, uh, the basis of a plan for their day.
I mean, to tell them what they're going to do for eight hours, right?
First of all.
Which is, like, yeah, there's some negotiation.
Like, well, what can you do?
Certainly, like, you know, a day-to-entry job is simply a day-to-entry job.
But, you know, when it gets to programming, I'm sure, like, what you can do, what you're good at, what areas need to grow,
so you can do this and this and this, become more valuable, the more you can do.
If you can only do a little bit and you need help, then, um, you should keep going.
You should keep reading.
But you've got to pull, you've got to, you need to plan for your time as a whole, right?
So that you can be sure that every day you're pulling yourself back to where you need to be.
You're making progress on each of these important projects because you want to make progress on all of them.
But you're not, you're not planning to get yourself back to them in a certain time window, which is why you're fucking up.
You need to organize your day in advance so that you're deciding when you're going to focus on the 3GS course.
When am I going to focus on planning a meeting?
When am I going to focus on deciding a title?
Like, let's just say that you just set deadlines, okay?
We're going to decide a title by such-and-such date.
Then we're going to decide on the table of contents and pieces.
We're like, okay, I'm going to pay myself X amount of dollars now.
Imaginary money.
I'm investing in myself.
So, but I'm going to pay myself to do certain things in certain hours a day.
So that I'm getting back to every project throughout the day.
Sort of like kindergarten class, right?
You do certain things, you have to do with some things.
I had a character who wore glasses, but he could wear a mask without fogging up his face.
But then at some point, he would just like, he was someone who, he put on the glasses and the mask, but otherwise he would walk around looking like everyone else.
He wouldn't even have a mask.
But like, he's like, he's like already had a vaccine.
But he just puts on a mask whenever he wants to turn evil.
And then he does acts of evil.
That can include kidnapping other people, torturing them, murdering them, vaping them, everything that is evil.
He does it.
Killing, murdering, everything, and sometimes all three.
A bunch of people.
But yeah, like a bunch of people.
And so he's creating an amusement park.
But it's kind of like, I want to say, so there was a man who had brown glasses and he'd kill off a kid and honey.
Like, he'd kill people in order to get access to what they had, their ideas, their Bitcoin.
Once he had sufficient money, killing people and taking all that money, passwords, keep living.
Otherwise, we'll just kill you.
Cooprate with us, you get more time.
Cooprate with us, or we're going to kill you.
Cooprate with us, or we are going to kill you.
And we're killed.
I can tell.
People.
So here's the problem.
Jewish people, because of their bombing.
Design must be ruined.
They're going to create this much of a problem.
And they need.
