=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0296y neurophotonics Holograms Neurons Worm
First recorded: 2021-05-11T05:51:01.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/390a4672-3716-4e17-8e7b-949d8ba61f4a
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Photonic signal into electrical signal, and then do some processing, and then trace back again.
So is that possible that we just, maybe you want a totally brand new system, like doing everything in photonics.
I'm not sure if there is a physical limitation, but my idea is that in that way,
how to say, in that way may, it will dramatically decrease the loss in some point, and also maybe highly improve the efficiency.
So imagine that since the photon can transfer, transfer the information, and it's easier to, it's better than the electrical signal.
When compared to the loss and the cross-calc.
So is that possible that, at the same time, when we transfer the information, I mean the, when we do the communication work,
we can also do the computation, so that way we can highly improve the efficiency.
So maybe we don't need to separate, separate the computation, so just do everything, yeah, at the same time.
That's just a big idea.
And also, I got this idea because, imagine, basically we don't know how, and, but, yeah, maybe imagine bringing the whole system that's, like, do everything together, like,
you know, like, the current system, we do, like, we separate, we separate every part, and then integrate every part together to do the work.
How about we, yeah, just do every piece at the same place?
You're saying create integrated photonics that has the high bandwidth of photonics, and somehow you integrate the computation,
so there's, like, zero loss of efficiency.
Research in this, in optical, sorry, yeah, in optical computing.
So, yeah, to integrate, like, you know, fiber optics communications, and then, like, just, as you said, like, not going into electrical signals,
just keep it as a light signal.
The index of refraction, depending on some, you know, some other signal across that medium,
you, you could, you know, you could take the light and just basically stop it, and we, we can do this already.
You can stop photons just by putting it into high index of refraction, medium, or, yeah, you could, like, put it in a, in it, like, have it bounce back and forth.
I think you'd get lost, you know, because it would still have impulse against the walls of that, that mirror.
So, yeah, so, yeah, I heard.
So, there's another way.
Um, there's, there was this, uh, sorry, I muted myself.
There was an article, uh, called the neural network implemented with light instead of electrons.
And, um, it was really cool because, uh, because, uh, it, it basically functioned as a neural network that, um, didn't need any electricity at all.
Uh, you could just, um, you know, they, they had several different sheets, and, uh, if you, if you, uh, if you, they each, the, the sheets represented the neural networks,
if you showed the numbers zero through nine, uh, through the open areas, uh, the, they would, as, as the image moved through the different sheets, um, uh, they, it eventually settled on, uh, a conclusion of which number.
It made a prediction of which number it was.
And there was absolutely no electricity and no movement.
It was only light passing through this, these layers of, of, uh, of reflective sheets.
So, um, what that points to is that you could, um, if you could create a machine that would, uh, basically store, um, the, uh, a way to reflect light in a certain way,
that would produce, um, that would re-encode the, the light, any light to, uh, so you don't have to store light itself.
You just re-encode light to whatever pattern that you want.
Um, I, I, I, I, I, I think for a long time people will still do this with electricity, but, um, I don't know, there's, it's possible.
Yeah, so I think, uh,
What is electrical signal?
Since for me, I think the photon has better capacity because we already know how to control and how to manage light with lots of, uh, methods.
So in that way, it gives you better capacity.
Yeah, sir, this is an interesting question that I think came, came up, uh, uh, in previous rooms as well.
Uh, I, I think, uh, I shared that there, uh, there was a friends in, uh, at MIT that, uh, with startups on photon and chip,
uh, and, uh, there was two competing teams.
I believe one of them is actually called a light matter.
And I, I believe, uh, we talked about it.
Like, for me, as an engineer, it's a practical talent.
Being practical and memory will be, uh, also quantum company.
I mean, certainly the bandwidth advantages alone might warrant some kind of use case, even if it was a big use case.
Like, I wonder if we can, what would be the purpose?
Besides being, uh, computers being general purpose, I think the, the, the big, uh, thing people are talking about is, uh, is AI, um, or neural networks specifically.
Deep learning is a good example of neural networks.
Um, there's an article, uh, if you, if you look up the, an article, uh, from Science Tech Daily called Light-Based Processor Chips Advanced Machine Learning.
Uh, they, they, they talk about an example, uh, in which the, um, the, these light-based processors, uh, can, uh, speed up tasks in the field of machine learning, uh, complex math tasks.
Uh, and, uh, we're talking speed ups of, like, 10 to the 12th or 10 to the 15th operations per second.
Um, conventional chips such as graphics cards and, and, uh, or TPUs, like Google's Tensor Processing Unit.
Uh, those are much, much slower.
So, um, so this is, uh, something to think about.
Michael, was that you?
Um, I, I don't know if I mentioned the paper I was talking about this topic, but, um, I, I also, the same article.
said that they, that, um, they are storing the information on, uh, basically the same way Blu-ray, uh, and CD-ROMs are, are stored in DVDs.
Is that, uh, an extra chip or over capacity or something?
Yeah, well, I think the reason they went with, with PCMs, you know, like for DVDs, um, is just for, for energy efficient storage.
Cause it's, it's gonna produce a massive amount of data.
And that's the, uh, that's the bigger concern.
So, I, I thought, was that you?
Was that, uh, was doing some kind of, uh, uh, going through some planes and then forming some images?
Was that you?
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
I, I brought that, I brought that up.
Yeah, yeah.
But, uh, how, how is that, uh, exactly?
How is that, exactly?
How is that, exactly?
Okay.
Uh, well, check out this, um, check out this, uh, uh, let's see if I can find the article.
And I'll, uh.
I posted it on my Twitter.
Oh, you did?
If you wanna take a look.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
Uh, so what, like, one of the problems that's often solved in, you know, machine learning,
uh, it, so including neural networks, is this NIST dataset where you have numerals from
0 to 9, and you kind of like, you test out your system, I'd like to, so it's kind of
just like a toy, it's a toy system, uh, with like a standard dataset, and, uh, it's like.
I wanna, I had, so I wanted to bring that back, bring us back to the topic of the group,
uh, in a fun way.
Okay, um, so, so someone, someone earlier asked, uh, what, it, with light, could you,
what could you do in terms of transferring information that's beyond, um, just three
dimensions?
Cause light, cause, uh, as Hanson said, light is three dimensional.
Um, I wanted to, so this is a fun, a fun thing.
Um, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, the, it's, the, I believe the answer is holography.
So, you know, hologram, everyone likes holograms, right?
And, um, you know, you can store, you can store like really amazing, uh, um, three dimensional,
even four dimensional, you know, we're gonna have VR headsets that are basically, um, holograms.
Basically, like a hologram is generated for every frame of your, of the screen.
So your T, your TV will be like just holograms in the future.
Right.
It's really, and then, so that, that, that actually brings us back to like the, but the,
but think about it, you know, we're talking about, um, real shapes and transferring topography.
Right.
And, and, you know, when you, when you dive into, uh, mathematics and, and, and, you know, you,
you can, you can dive into many different dimensions in terms, in terms of, you know, infinity
in, in that topography, I guess, right?
It's still three dimensional, but you can, but you can, so that answers one question, I
think.
And, but then that brings us back to the, the topic of, of the group in terms of, uh, you
know, I guess also Sierra's question that, that was mentioned earlier was, could, could,
uh, photonics, neuro photonics, uh, replace other brain computer interfaces?
I think, um, I think it could, I think it won't, but I think it could.
And I think within 20 years, uh, we're going to have devices like, you know, open water, uh,
by Mary, Mary, Mary, the Mary Lou Jepson's company is going to be creating, uh, you know,
laser fast functional infrared spectroscopy sensors that can scan your whole brain and,
uh, in any, any part of the human body with like, uh, with better detail and, uh, and faster
speed than, than, uh, something like Neuralink or, or EEG or, or any other, um, machine,
uh, brain machine interface.
Um, and they'll be able to stimulate any part of your, your body with ultrasound as well.
This is like within a, within a 20 year timeline.
These things will, will, will, will, I think have the capability of replacing these other
technologies, but, um, uh, and they'll be cheap.
So they'll, they'll be maybe, um, I can just imagine that, that, that, you know, the
brain computer interface that connects you to the matrix will be entirely wireless.
So if you want to, you know, plug into VR through direct brain stimulation, you won't have to
actually have any surgery.
Not like the way Neuralink is imagining it because you'll be able to read and write
the human brain eventually, uh, with just, um, with just light and sound.
Um, but I, but to, to, to bring that to you, like, that's because we are, uh, reversing
the refraction, refraction of light, which is, which is holography.
That is the definition of holography.
That is the definition of holography.
It's of reversing the refraction of light to create an image from, uh, from the light
that's being collected with the sensors.
And, um, and so the, the, the potential amount of detail that we could extract.
I don't know that there is a limit.
Um, it's very interesting.
Yeah.
I agree.
It's very interesting.
So in that.
Well, this medical dimension in space, that's a different question.
But still, I mean, they, uh, there's no to do that.
So yeah, I don't see another dimension.
Have you guys seen the open worm project?
Um, they took a worm and they basically modeled, um, it's, it's neurons.
Um, and they basically, they didn't program it at all.
They basically put this, uh, just like neural, um, just like a neural net from a, from a worm.
And they, um, basically put it onto like this embedded device and the, uh, and they basically
like gave it like a body, like a worm.
And it basically acted like a worm.
Uh, you could check it out.
It's an open source project.
You could download it.
Um, uh, they, they, they have a whole writeup on it and everything.
It's, it's quite interesting.
Um, uh, it's, you know.
One of the projects like, um, in related to this.
Um, they have a lot of like forks and stuff of the project, but it's called the open worm project.
It's pretty interesting, um, to, to check out and to understand.
Cause, uh, they took a different approach, uh, to.
And Tom, can you please elaborate on that?
Um, I actually just looked it up, but it would be great if, um, you go.
My, my brain's kind of fried right now.
I've been up for like, uh, a long time, but, um, uh, I'd like, uh, so they, they were trying
to, um, basically model the, the neurons of, of a worm.
Um, it's, it's less complex than a human brain.
Right.
Um, so, but with the human brain, we have a lot more neurons.
Um, and the, the, just the, the, uh, the, the, the vertexes and the nodes and things like
that just make it more complex.
So it was easier for, for, for them to map the worm.
Um, I, I think it was like a hundred or 52 something neurons like that.
Um, and I don't know if you guys ever seen like, like, um, the neurons, like on the microscope,
like how they firing and the different things like that.
So they, they chose a complexity space that was, um, you know, not as great as a human
and a worm.
Um, and basically it was to prove that you can, you can take this and, and basically,
um, model it without coding essentially like the, the neural, the neural net quotes.
Um, uh, and, and you can upload it onto a device and it will behave just like the worm.
Um, and, um, uh, they, they were able to do it.
Um, and it, it was pretty cool.
So, um, it basically showed that you can take like the understanding of the, uh, the neurons
and like replicate it and basically have the device interface with this neural neural net
that's modeled after something's brain.
And, and, and basically it exhibited behavior very similar to the worm.
Um, it would like crawl, find the wall, uh, and they gave it like, and they attached little
sensors, um, to the, um, to the little, uh, body that they gave it.
And you could check it out.
It's like, it's an open source project.
It's pretty cool.
Like very interesting.
I just think that the human brain has a lot more neurons.
So the space is, is, is, is, is very big exponentially, like, um, bigger than, than, than, than that.
So, um, you know, I, I think that that's where the computational, um, just, just modeling
the human brain is a much more complex problem, but, uh, from, from that, from that approach.
So, um, using like the scans and stuff like that to map, um, what you see from a scan to
like, um, some, some behavioral or some like, uh, like basically a classification type problem
might be about optimal solution, but versus like trying to model the brain with neurons.
But I'm not an expert.
I'm just a fan boy on this.
So, you know, that, that, that, that's just my opinion.
I think we wanted to get a chance, uh, let Jocelyn try them in.
Been very patient.
This may be off topic diplomats in Cuba and China.
Some, uh, there were many theories, uh, started happening in 2016 and 17.
And there were many theories after that, but it was finally determined that it was, um, something
within the radio frequency range.
Just wondering if you could weigh in, weigh in on this.
And, um, just wondering if, um, you know, whether this type of thing has been weaponized.
I'm just curious.
I, I was intrigued by the story.
So I, I actually haven't heard of it.
Um, is this something from the UN circle?
Um, yeah, so this was, uh, purported to have happened in Cuba to some American diplomats.
And then I think there was a recurrence or purported recurrence of it in, um, uh,
China.
It was a China or I was gonna say maybe Russia, but, uh,
It was in China.
It was a China.
Tony, did you happen to catch the story of the sick diplomats in Cuba and the theory of the
weaponization?
Yeah.
Uh, there's a couple of theories about what it was.
I mean, people definitely got sick and have like sustained, you know, some, uh, some damage.
Uh, and like, uh, uh, there's the theories of whether this is, uh, a sonic attack, like
weaponized sound, which is that there's, you know, there's plenty of research on like the
US and other countries have plenty of sound weapons.
Uh, and there, there's theories that it was microwave radiation attack.
Uh, and there's plenty of, you know, US and other countries that have weaponized, uh, microwaves.
So, uh, yes, uh, it, it happened.
And yes, there's definitely, uh, these kind of like non-lethal weapons, uh, that have been
developed a lot for like, uh, either sound control, sorry, a crowd control, uh, or just
like, uh, kind of like covert, covert operations, covert attack.
And, uh, I, I don't really know what, what else to say.
No, no, no, I think you hit it, right?
I don't think it's easy for us to determine the pathology of which weapon or which, uh,
Jocelyn, does that kind of get you?
Well, I'm wondering if this technology is in the hands of a person, whether they can,
um, um, weaponize this, um, because it was just very strange the way this happened.
And when they came forward with what had happened to them, they weren't believed.
So you could, uh, I mean, they complained of drop to the ground headaches.
I mean, if they weren't clustered there, if individually they had gone to doctors, I don't
think one doctor would have thought that this was from a weapon.
And that's what I'm wondering about this technology.
If it's, um, you know, in the hands of evil people.
Yeah.
I would guess, um, even though this is kind of way off topic for the group, that, um, that
both situations are, are likely that a scientist, uh, who, who, with sufficient ambition and money
could make this, uh, but, but more likely, uh, funding from secret governments, I guess, but
this is kind of off topic also.
Yeah.
So ordinary person, no extraordinary person possibly.
And we still have all the answers on that, um, event.
Like lighten up the conversation a little bit and, you know,
