=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0305y Talking Neuralink Neuron Microphones Neocortex
First recorded: 2021-04-24T06:20:46.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/028dba8e-a4fe-45b9-8392-ce417294bfd6
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
I'd love to understand more.
Almost all other mammals, including mice, but it's different in other mammals.
So pretty much all mammals have the same sort of six layers, sort of, but if you look at...
The structure.
Yeah, well, yeah, okay.
But the structures vary a lot.
So, for example, at a mouse, the mouse brain is mostly layer one, and the rest of the layers are really compressed, whereas for a human being, we have a lot of each of the layers.
Like, all the layers have lots of space.
For, I think, I've seen some descriptions of, like, the whale and dolphin brains being, like, one layer, but it's probably mostly one layer, with the rest of the layers really compressed, just like a mouse.
That's a, I don't know exactly if that's true, but I think that's probably the case.
Risha, can I ask you a question?
Sure.
So, to answer your, to answer Mo's question, so, so, so, so there was this, there was this neuroscientist who was, like, studying cats, and he was, like, if you, like, brush a cat, like, if you brush its, its fur or something, he, they had electrodes in the, in the brain of the cat to see what, what part of the brain would, would fire.
And, um, what this scientist discovered, I think it was, uh, in the 40s, in the 40s or something like that, it may have been the 30s or 40s.
He, he, he, um, he said, he came up with this idea that a neural column, which is, like, one, so, I guess, so a neural column, so, so, uh, the neocortex, if you took it out of someone's, out of, out of, out of, out of, out of a brain, if you took it out of a skull,
and you flattened the brain, you flattened the, the top, the, just the neocortex, it's, like, um, it's, like, after you unscrunch it, it's, like, basically, it's, like, a napkin, in terms of, like, a dinner napkin, like, a big, you know, um, uh, I don't know, it's, uh, not, like, a small napkin.
Yeah, I mean, it's, but it's, like, it's, like, this big, flat, it's, like, a big, flat napkin, so, um, but if you wanted to, like, if you just wanted to look, like, at two centimeters of that
napkin, uh, then that would, then what's in that is, like, a neural column, and so what, so the idea is that when the cat, when you're scratching the cat, and, and the whiskers are being activated, there's just, like, one tiny corresponding part in, in part of that brain that's, it's active that represents those whiskers, and so this scientist, uh, he was, like, well, the, he, he thinks that the neural column is basically the organ, um, the organizing principle of information in the brain,
and, uh, and so that idea, um, there's a more modern version of that idea, and there's a book called, um, A Thousand Brains, and
so the idea is that, is that you'd have, like, uh, in your visual cortex, in the back of your head, you, when you are holding a, a coffee cup, uh, or maybe you're holding your phone, so if you look at your phone, if you have your phone in your hand, um, there's, there's, there are columns in the visual
cortex that are, that are basically creating a model of the phone, it's, like, maybe, like, a thousand different models in the phone, and each of those models is modeled slightly differently by different, uh, columns in the, in the neocortex, so it's like a different, you know, centimeter of brain tissue is, is, is rendering the phone over, and another centimeter of brain tissue is rendering the same phone, but in a slightly different way, and there's a hundred, there's a hundred, or a thousand of these different images, and then you have parts of the visual cortex that are, um,
sort of, sort of, like, uh, uh, creating a representation of the sounds that that phone makes, so if you, like, if you bang the sound on, the bang the phone on something, then that sound
is going to be rendered, uh, is going to be created, like, a thousand times in your audio cortex, and as you touch the phone, as you move your fingers along the phone, along the back or the front, um, you've got your somatosensory cortex to represent your touch,
and so you've got maybe a thousand representations of where your hand is in your somatosensory cortex, and the interesting thing is, is that,
all these different, uh, neural columns are talking to each other, so as, as the, um, uh, the, the part of your, uh, brain in the visual cortex that is coming up with the representations of the phone,
and predictions of, of how the phone is going to look, if, if you suddenly saw a crack in the phone, you'd be very surprised, because your brain is modeling the phone, and it's predicting what it's going to look like,
and it's prediction is a model, like, a 3D model of the phone, and, um, and then, uh, it, and that has to be talking to your somatosensory cortex,
to all the representations that are tracking where your fingers are on your phone, so they can predict, as you see your fingers moving along the phone,
you also are, you also are going to predict what you're going to feel next, so what you're seeing and what you're feeling,
uh, those are two different parts of your brain that are talking to each other, so you have
all these different representations of what you're feeling, talking to all these different representations
of your, of what you're seeing, and that is like your, the, it's like the microcolumns in your, in your
visual cortex, sending information to the, uh, back and forth with the micro, with the columns,
the cortical columns, the word, sorry, the word is cortical columns, not microcolumns,
the, to the cortical columns in your somatosensory cortex, and those are sending information back and
forth with the cortical columns in your audio cortex, which is, which is where your hearing is
taking place, and all three of those, uh, sensory input areas are sending information, uh, back and
forth, sort of like constantly to, um, to make predictions as you rotate the phone, as you change
it to, to, to predict also the orientation of the phone, and not, not only the orientation of the phone,
but basically the, the orientation position, uh, uh, sights and sounds, uh, have every single object
in the room with you right now, like everything is managed by different, um, every object is managed
by different, uh, cortical columns that are modeling, you, you, you may have thousands of cortical columns
that are modeling, uh, anything that you're looking at, anything that you're focusing on, anything in
the background, in the room itself, and, um, whatever, so whatever you're focused on is, is probably what's
going to, probably was taking up the most cortical columns at that particular time, but those cortical
columns are, uh, you know, what you're focused on, they're doing the most communication with, um, all the
different sensory areas, and then when it comes to basically higher levels of thinking, when you're
thinking about an abstract, um, concept, like an object, you're going to have, like, uh, you're going to have a
part of your, um, basically, uh, you're going to have maybe in the, in the prefrontal, uh, uh, what is it
called, the, yeah, prefrontal lobes, the prefrontal cortex, you're going to have, um, maybe, maybe some
ideas that are basically managed by, uh, cortical columns as well, and those cortical columns, so like,
if you have the idea of a fish, and you're thinking about how the fish looks, and how the fish tastes,
and, well, so, when you're thinking about how the fish looks, so you have, you have the idea of a fish,
right, but then, if you're looking about, if you think about how the fish looks, then you're, then
you're, you're, you're prefrontal cortex is now talking to your visual cortex, and if you're thinking
about how, how the fish, uh, feels when you pick it up and, and handle it, or, or chop it, or feed it, all these
different, like, like, um, if you think about, you know, the feeling, the feeling of the fish, um, that is
your prefrontal cortex, the idea, talking to the feeling part of your brain, which is the somatosensory
cortex, which is, and if you're visualizing at that at the same time, if you're seeing the fish, then
you're, you're, your visual cortex is also talking to the somatosensory cortex, and your prefrontal
cortex, and so you have these, you'd have micro columns, lots of micro columns, in each part of,
of, of the, of, of the brain, and they're all talking to each other when you're, when you're doing that,
uh, mental activity, and, um, so if we could, so with, when it comes to Neuralink, Neuralink is the
ability to implant a lot of electrodes that can read, uh, single, um, electrons firing, and, uh, sorry,
single, uh, neurons firing, right, and so you can put a, like, you put 16 electrodes, um, per each of
these strands, uh, into the brain, and that means that you can triangulate, uh, with, um, you can,
you can, you can try to triangulate, and, and basically figure out where signals are coming from,
uh, which is, it's just a hard thing to do in general, but, but the, but the Neuralink is, like,
really just an incredible device with all of the, uh, in its design, in terms of, like, because,
because if you're, a few questions there, yeah, I'll pause, um, so one question I would have is, like,
so for these, um, different regions of the brain that you're talking about, these, um, when you get
injected, or when the, the Neuralink, um, you know, it injects the thousand little strands, um, is it
only going to be looking at, like, a specific part of the brain, so is it going to be limited to, like,
say, one part of your, when it's one part of where these representations are, so if it's going to be
able to do the vision cortex, or, or some other part, or is it actually spread out enough that it
can reach all of these different parts? So that is up to the scientists, uh, but the, the, the current,
uh, design of the Neuralink, well, what they're doing, what they're doing right now is they're,
they're implanting, like, three, around 3,000 electrodes at a time, but they have the capability
with the current device to sustain at 10,000 electrodes, and, um, with, with future devices,
I mean, there's no limit, there's no limit, so, uh, they could stick, uh, the, the, the key,
the key thing, though, is that, um, it's pretty much going to be about, uh, decoding, uh, the,
the neocortex, or, or the, the, um, probably, I would say, once they, once they figure out,
um, if they've already figured out what I'm talking about, then, then they're probably going
to be decoding the, um, the cortical columns, and since the cortical columns are in the neocortex,
and the neocortex is on the top of the brain, then, then that should be, um, that should work
out for, for Neuralink, but. Is it like, uh, like, like a layer of an onion on top of the brain,
or is it like a spot on top of the brain? Well, then, so the neocortex is, is actually the top
two-thirds of the brain, but it's sort of scrunched up, so it's not, the entire neocortex
isn't completely accessible, but, um, but a lot of it is, and that might be enough.
People are able to, scientists took out, I think, the neocortex, most of it, from cats,
and then these cats put back in their isolation, almost like normal, they just got super exploratory,
just because, um, if you take that out, what's left is sort of like the lizard brain,
as they call it sometimes, and that's just all, uh, survival instinct, uh, no regulation,
um, but I don't know, that's just where I thought you were going at first, but.
I mean, I, I'm, I'm willing to bet that, that, um, for most of neuroscience, none of the animals
survived, uh, any of the brain surgeries. Basically, for the first ten years of, of, of brain surgery
and human beings, not a single person lived. It was, it took them ten years to figure it out.
So, I mean, in, in modern days, of course, we can do, like, brain, like, the neural link,
we deal with, with the monkey, the monkey lives, the pigs live, like, like, these are, um, but in
the old days, yeah, all the animals, I'm sure, probably died. I'm sorry, that's probably grim.
I'm curious, like, just in what sense, um, we get these, or when these first iterations
come out, like, uh, what, um, based off of where this technology is, as if, like, well,
so I don't know if there's, like, um, like, when, when you get into the video cortex, is
there a place where you want to be, if you want to look at language, um, or is that kind
of spread out throughout the whole brain, um, or maybe we overvalue that, um, just very
curious, yeah, what, uh, what kind of signals, um, like, uh, moving a cursor is one thing,
and then typing a sentence is another thing, but thinking a sentence is another thing, and
then, um, if, yeah, and I, another thought I have had is, sorry, I'm rambling, but, uh,
this is one last, uh, thought here, is I, I, I wonder if what we'll do is, you know, take
these neural links, and then just tie them into our AI assistant, and just kind of feed
the raw signals to some other AI that then, you know, kind of, we interact with, and so
it, it, like, as we're thinking, able to process right then and there what kind of quote-unquote
assistance it should provide, um, and, and, yeah, yeah, yeah, I think that's kind
of maybe, and, and what if that's even, like, a feedback loop where you, you have the signals
come out and then go back into your brain, um, after they go through some kind of processing
computer stuff, and then injects maybe a new, even if, even if you're just showing, um, images
or words, it is kind of a feedback loop that you, you would be doing upon yourself.
Yeah, um, so I can answer all those questions, uh, if I can remember them all, but, so, uh,
yeah, so, so the first, first generations of Neuralink, what, what Neuralink is saying
is that they're going to basically do, um, they're basically doing what they showed you
in the monkey video, which is, like, it's the same sort of, um, uh, technology that
they had in, um, uh, what is it called, BrainGate, BrainGate was, uh, you can look
that up if you want, but, um, BrainGate was, uh, the, the first idea to use, um, uh, to,
to implant electrodes, uh, above the somatosensory cortex, or the motor cortex,
I've heard, one of those two, and in order so, so that the patients could, uh, control,
uh, a mouse on, on a screen, and, and, and thus control, uh, a variety of different devices,
basically for paralyzed people. So they want to, they want to basically, um, create an
improved version of that, just to, just, you know, as a proof of concept, because they
can, because if they mass produce this, and then that means that, uh, that every paralyzed,
uh, person in the world can have one, and, uh, and, and now every paralyzed person in the
world can have, uh, functionality, uh, that they didn't have. Um, in addition, um, in addition,
so, um, you know, I, I believe, you know, that, um, this is going to lead to basically the
restoration of, of, um, you know, basically, like, you know, like, if someone has a severed
spine, well, um, there, there was a time when, you know, there's, there was no hope
for, uh, for restoring function to, you know, between the brain and the rest of the body,
because there, there was no con, no conceptual understanding of, of what signals, uh, needed
to travel across the spine that had been severed, and, and how to, and how to fix that. Um, but
I, I think that, um, that, you know, maybe, maybe that problem will be, will be, uh, solved
based upon newer ideas that, that, um, that, uh, people are, are, in, are having, and also
combined with this neuro, neuro, uh, neuro link technology. And, um, let's see, what was the
rest of, that you wanted to say? Oh, in terms of...
Oh, go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead. Um, yeah, I'm just trying to remember. I do have, um, maybe
an interesting question. It's a brief one, too. Um, you had mentioned, um, if I can now remember
the question, but you had mentioned, um, or I guess this isn't even a question. This is
a comment. Um, just, um, I remember I saw Elon Musk tweeting that, um, he had, uh, seen
the, or, or he had said that, uh, the, um, neural lace is going to make it so people can
communicate better with their phones than you can with your thumbs. And I see that to
be, like, probably much easier to do than, um, playing the pong, even, um, if you can just
kind of have, like, where the person's looking, that's kind of a click. Um, but sorry, I, I,
I could have swore I had a question, and then once I got to it, it turned into a comment.
Um, but maybe it did, um, not better.
Hey, I wanted to say something to you, Micah, real quick, while you remembering the question.
I was in a group, it was sort of a social experiment, right? Because I wanted to know
what these doctors actually knew anything, if they actually knew anything about, um,
neural lacing or the technology. So I was in a medical group, right? It wasn't really a
medical group. It was just a bunch of doctors with, like, with extreme heaters hanging out.
And I'm like, and, like, a few of them were, like, in genomics, so they said.
And I'm like, do you understand that, um, you know, Elon Musk's Neuralink, I, I know it's,
I know he bought the technology. I know that it was, you know, invented by somebody else.
But that's besides the point. Okay. I was like, do you understand that this technology,
um, could actually, um, could, could, could very, very, um, well in the extreme near future
help, you know, quadriplegics, um, you know, try to navigate, um, ISV devices.
And they were like, basically, they told me that I was, you know, uh, completely disingenuous,
that they don't believe any of this shit is all bunk, and it's not going to happen for
at least a hundred years. And I'm like, how do you know that? Can you, can you give me
any evidence to back up your claims? And they just got very upset. I was booted from the
room, eventually, because I was asking these questions that they didn't like. So what are
your thoughts on this, Micah? I just thought it was absurd, because they had, like, no evidence
to give you no facts at all, at all. Right. I mean, you could, you could just, I mean,
I think we covered it earlier. You could point them to BrainGate and point them to the video
with the monkey controlling the mouse. I mean, that's, that covers it, right? Yeah.
Um. They were like, oh, it's, I'm like, well, how do you know what it is? Can you, can
you give me any evidence that it is? They were like, oh yeah, Elon's all hype. I'm like,
interesting that you say that. There's a number of these guys that go through rooms
and conversations like this. And then they, they just like, you know, we could be having
this conversation. One of these guys could come in and then be like, oh, but you don't
have the exact, uh, documented research evidence for this. And so basically they're like, uh,
the scribes and Pharisees. They're like, it's called, yeah, it's called gaslighting.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They're turning into like an ideology or, you know, some, some huge dogma,
but it's like, you know, the whole point of an app like this is so you can have conversations
and if you have to like go and like, make sure every thought that you have is like completely
verified by like three sources or whatever they try to do, then it's just like, nobody
could really think, but you know, we, we put together these thoughts, have these conversations,
but yeah, there's always going to be those groups. And that's just like, some people choose
to have a pathetic existence, but don't let it get to you.
Yeah. I mean, I just thought it was really funny. That's all because I mean, they're in
the medical field and they're like, quote unquote, trying to develop disruptive technology
to help people like how Elon Musk is going to help people, but they didn't, they didn't
want to give him any kind of credit. And I'm not a huge fan of Elon Musk. I'm, I'm talking
about the neural link, you know, device that he's going to, that actually very well may
help quadriplegics. I think it's very exciting and definitely noteworthy. Don't you think,
Micah?
Yeah. They're just narcissists.
Yeah. I actually remembered LaSanne's questions. If you want me to go from there.
Cool. Cool. Go for it.
So, uh, one of the, so some of the questions were like, well, what about, you know, language
and, and what about, uh, certain like, you know, brain areas? If I wanted to, if I wanted
to decode, you know, what someone was thinking or, and I guess that could apply to any different
kind of thought. Um, so there are, so there are, um, there's association areas in the brain,
uh, that are like, you know, Broca's area and Wernick's area. And, uh, those are, uh, associated
with, with, uh, with speech and language. Um, and, um, and there's a bunch of other association
areas that they're basically like, um, this, it's like a, it's like a high level operation
seems to be happening there based upon when patients get injured, that, uh, that patient
loses the ability to like either speak or to understand language that those sorts of things.
And, um, so, um, if the Neuralink device can reach, you know, Broca's area and Wernick's
area, then, then I guess that those might be targets for, um, trying to decode. And I
think they, I think they have been, and I think, I think that, um, you know, it's not like,
it's not like, uh, Neuralink is the first device that has been used to try to, uh, listen
to, uh, single neurons firing. You can use, you can use, um, like the Utah array or you can
use other, other devices to try to listen to, um, to neurons firing. But, but I think,
I think, uh, the issue with language is that it's, it's, it was, um, there, there wasn't
enough. I think there's two things. One is there wasn't enough electrodes to really like
triangulate the sources of the signals to properly decode them. And two, like trying to
decode, like, see the way, the way neurons are really long, like they go really long distances
and they go in random directions and they, and the part of the neuron that the spike comes
out of can, can kind of be random. Like, I mean, they, they, they have, there's an action
potential which happens in the, in the body and it's, and then there's, uh, the dendritic
spike, but, but the part in terms of like, uh, that your sensor is going to pick up, uh,
you know, where that is, where it's going to detect a spike, it could be a different place.
And so like, if you're trying to figure out if a spike came, if you're trying to figure
out, uh, where a spike came from, if your electrode picks up a spike, right? It's just
like, it's like, it's like, okay, so imagine like the, imagine that you just have a dark
room and there's a microphone in the room and that microphone represents your, your
electrode, right? So your electrode doesn't know if, if, like I said, let's say the spike
is a large, is a sound. And so a spike happens and the microphone picks up a sound, but it doesn't
know where that, that spike came from. And then, so if you put three electrodes, well,
well, well, what happens is the spike happens and all three microphones pick up the sound,
but in some of the microphones, uh, it's going to be like a little louder. And so maybe the
spike is closer to the, to the microphone that was a little louder. And so you might think,
okay, well, the neuron could be closer to the mic that was a little louder, but then the
same neuron fires, but a different, but the spike happens, uh, is noticed at a different
point. And so what happens is, is the same neuron fires, but if I, but the spike comes
out at a different point and it's closer to a different microphone, you might think that
is a different neuron, uh, because, because the spike happens somewhere else. And, uh, but
actually it's the same neuron. And, um, and so it's, and it gets complicated. Like, so then
you, you see another spike where the first one happened, but it, but because neurons are all
squeezed together, this, this spike could actually be a different neuron, even though it seems
to be from the same neuron. Uh, and so like, so, so, so this is like trying to triangulate
not only where spikes are coming from with multiple microphones, with multiple electrodes,
uh, but also which spike belongs to which neuron is, is really difficult as you can imagine
with this scenario. So, so what Neuralink does is, is they're, they're going to say, okay,
we're going to put 16 electrodes for each one of these, um, you know, implants. And then
we're going to put, you know, each one of these like hair, like the implant is like the,
it's like implanting a hair and that hair has like 16 electrodes on it. And they're doing
that because they, there's like, that's like putting 16 microphones in a room, but then they're
doing like, okay, 16, but then we're going to put a hundred at once. So it's like a hundred
times 16 in just one area. Um, and, um, so now there's like a, now imagine you're, you're
in a dark room and you've got, um, a hundred different, uh, uh, things hanging down from
the ceiling and each of these things has a different microphone. And so now, and so now
when the neurons fire, like what you're, the image that you're reproducing and trying to decode
like what's firing and where it's firing from is a lot richer, it's a lot more detailed.
You can really tell the difference now between whether that, that, that signal that was coming
from that one spot is really, uh, that one neuron, or if it's, if it's coming from a slightly
different area, you can tell because, because you have so many different, uh, uh, microphones
or electrodes. And then, um, and then, you know, you can, you can begin to maybe figure
out, um, you know, if a neuron is, is making noise in two different places, you can, you,
you might be able to figure that out too. Um, but, uh, I, I don't know all the, exactly
how, how, how they do that, but, but it's something like that.
Yeah. This has been really great. I, um, the, the, since I, I didn't know that neurons,
I always thought of neurons as being like, um, kind of all the same length and all just
kind of like stacked together like, uh, little puzzle pieces. But thinking of, I, I, I did
some like side Googling and, um, the neuron in our, um, spinal cord is like, can be, you
know, a meter long. Um, and so just thinking of that's really fascinating. And then in addition,
just this sense that, which like, again, when I, when I was thinking of the neural link,
I was thinking of each of these little strands. A, I didn't know how many, um, how many neuro
or how many, um, electrodes. That was one of the questions that you answered before I
could ask it. Cause I, with the, the fact that there's 16 per strand. Uh, but then the,
I was thinking like those strands would just like sit next to neurons and just they, all
that they would have access to is like whichever neurons they would be next to directly
like touching. That's what kind of would be the signal they would be getting. But the
sense that that's not it, it's more that it's like, they're, you know, submerging
themselves in, in like the, the, the brain so that they can triangulate all of the different
electrical signals that come from the different places. Um, one question I would, I would have
is just like how far, like, is that like when a neuron fires, is it like, what's the like
radius of that, that electron spike in which way? Like, yeah. Yeah. So thank you. This
has been really great. So depending, so depending on the density of the brain at any given point,
it could be as many as a thousand neurons that one electrode is picking up and listening
too. Okay. And it can like, along the side with the other, um, electrodes near it, it
can, uh, triangulate, um, with those others to try and get like actually the, the exact
precise point that, that electron is firing at. So you can actually build that full
three-dimensional model, um, at least to some accuracy because you're not just, yeah, with
the, with the ability to triangulate. To some degree of accuracy. That's right. Um, but in fact,
uh, when you have electrodes in the brain like this, you can track signals, uh, across the
entire brain. In fact, you can track signals from, uh, from outside the brain with, with
EEG. You can, you can trace, you can use what's called, you can, it's called EEG source
localization. And, um, and you can see like, you can track accurately where, you know, where
signals in the brain are coming from as deep as the thalamus, uh, with just EEG. So with,
with, um, with implanted electrodes with neural link, um, the, the, the ultimate capability
is to just track, uh, where signals are coming from everywhere in the brain, but most
accurately to, um, action potentials that are really close to the electrode and, uh, to
make predictions about what's firing within, with, uh, really accurate predictions
what was firing within the, uh, the radius of, of about a thousand neurons. Um, but
ultimately be able to, uh, do, uh, brain imaging, uh, everywhere, but, but it, but in,
with the degrees of like the resolution is best where, where the electrode is closest and it's
second best when you're within like, you know, that, that, um, I think it's 140 micrometers,
which is about a, which can be about a thousand neurons, I think. And then, um, and then, uh,
but then, uh, at a lower, at a lower resolution, you can track, uh, everything in the brain.
The textbook for you, if you're interested in Lasson, well, I mean, it's not for me,
it's actually for, you can get it on the internet. I think it's put out by UCSD,
it's called Neuroscience and it actually, um, it's an 800 page textbook that I'm currently
reading and it, it will, um, it pretty much has all the answers that Micah, well, not all
of them, but pretty much how neurons work and, um, you know, the actual, all of the structures
of. What was, what was that book again? It's called Neuroscience. I think it's a third edition.
I'm actually reading it now, my Kindle. It's really cool because it, it goes all the way
back to, um, when they believed that, um, uh, I'm sorry, when, when, when, um, there,
there was a huge dispute between two types, um, two, um, two fields of neuroscience, I want
to say. It's a little confusing because I haven't, I, I actually had to put down the book
because it's so dense, but it's, it basically gives you a very concise and very complicated
and difficult to understand history of neuroscience and, um, going into like the glial cells, all
of the structures of our, um, of, um, other cells and, um, you know, all the way up to present,
um, you know, techniques, I guess, of, I guess like PET and MRIs and stuff like that.
Is the author Dale Purves? Yeah. Oh, that guy. Okay. Um, there's, there's another book
that, if you like that book, there's another book that you probably would, would think is
really cool. It's called, um, Rhythms of the Brain. Okay. So, yeah. Cool. Cause, yeah,
it's edited by Dale Purves and George Augustine. And, uh, I'm like a quarter of the way through
with that. And then, and then I'm going to check out the book that you just recommended,
Micah. Thanks. Yeah. I think that, I think you'll like it for, for the, basically the
same reasons. It covers a lot of the same material probably, but with a slightly different, uh,
angle perspective. Cool. Cause I, I actually didn't hear what you said cause you were breaking
up. If you want to try again, that's fine. No, I just saying that it's a fascinating field
of the study. And, um, I think that we're going to have, um, for instance, I know, I know
that, um, that, um, you know, um, various, various mental illnesses are going to, um, pretty
much be covered in the future. I mean, we're pretty much abated in the future with technology
like neural lacing. Um, so that's the hypothesis. I mean, I'm sure that you would know a lot more
about that. I've heard of that from various people in, in, in, you know, in the mental
health community and people in tech that are actually working on this, you know, having
to do the near cortex and then the PFC and different parts of the brain, like deep brain
structures. Uh, for instance, like OCD is, is going to be a, uh, some, something in the
past. So what do you think about that, Micah? Do you know anything about that?
About OCD, um, OCD in particular, I'm probably not, uh, I'm probably not familiar with the
specific article that you might be referencing. Um, I'm not referencing any articles. I'm just
talking about, um, how a lot of mental, various mental illnesses are going to be a thing of the
past with this type of technology, like Neuralink. Oh, um, yeah, I'm, I'm not exactly sure
what, um, what, uh, Elon Musk is, is talking about in that instance. I mean, so, I mean,
what I can say is that, um, what, what, uh, they have talked about is, uh, closed loop therapies
where you, you, um, the closed loop therapy would be that you would, you stimulate the brain
and then, uh, look at what the simulation did to see if you're either improving the patient's
outcome or, or, or worsening the patient's outcome and then you stimulate again and then
you look at what happened again and you do it, you do it over and over again and you try
a stimulation of different, different, uh, different electrodes, different strengths and, and you
basically play with the person's brain until you're producing a better outcome. Um, but what
I've heard is that, um, is that, uh, the, the medical professionals may not even begin to, uh, to do this
kind of closed loop therapy on patients in the short term just because of, um, for a couple things.
One is that, you know, every time you breathe, uh, or the most subtle movement, that electrode
could be moving around and because all your, all your, uh, nerve, because your, your, your neurons
are, are, you know, almost like spaghetti that in terms of like going in terms of like everything
is going everywhere and everything is layered on top of everything else. And so what happens is when
that, when that, uh, electron fires, it's going to send a pulse that could, I mean, the pulse could
affect a lot of different things simultaneously that you didn't intend to. And because you might
have a neuron that's going from, you know, where the electrical pulse is to the other side of your
head, you could be stimulating something on the other side of your head that you never intended
to stimulate. And it, and it's going to be different for each person. And so it's basically kind of like
at this point, it's kind of a, it's kind of a, um, it's kind of a mess to try to figure out how to do
a closed loop therapy in a safe way, I think is what I'm hearing. Um, but, um, so there are some
things that they're going to have to figure out first, especially because, you know, like even if
you, even if you figure out what the patient needs and the electrode moves, well now what the patient
needs is different than what the patient needed before because, because you don't necessarily, like
how are you, how are you going to know exactly how the electrode moved, right? Because you'd almost
have to like, um, basically do the sort of high resolution mapping of the brain with all your
microphones in the dark room again to figure out how they moved from the last time. And it's really,
it's really just, um, uh, this is just, it's just, uh, these are, these are hard problems. And, um,
so I don't know what the, what the, what the solution is right now, except that maybe they're going to
have to think about, uh, stimulating, uh, the brain from, from outside the brain, like, um, you know,
like, like, like maybe stimulating your eyes and your ears or your, your tongue or your back or your
feet instead of stimulating the brain directly. Um, but, but stimulating nerves that extend outside
the brain. So, um, that might be a safer route. That's what I'm thinking.
Is it possible though? I'm curious. Do you think it's possible to, um, well, sure it's possible,
but is it, is it probable that they'll be able to like, um, you know, you know, um, trace
certain signals from one area of the brain from, let's say from the neocortex or maybe the front of
the brain to deeper, deeper structures in the brain with somebody who's been diagnosed with something
like, um, excessive or pure O is, as they call, what they call pure O is like pure obsessive thought.
Would they be able to record that and trace it and see what happens in an individual over,
let's say a few, you know, a few days period of time to try to help that person?
Arguably, yes. Um, so arguably, um, so the level of detail that we're talking about is basically the
level of a single neuron firing. And, um, I guess, I guess one of the ideas with, with OCD is it could
be that part of your brain is, is, uh, is too excited and firing too much. Um, and, uh, so if you're
able to, um, put the electrodes in that area of the brain and, um, uh, you know, maybe, uh, just,
just, um, you know, one, one idea, I guess, is a neuro, sort of a neurofeedback idea. If you could put,
if you could put the electrodes or the medical imaging device in, in the, in the part of the
brain that, that is, um, really noisy when a person is having an OCD experience and you're able
to help them to become aware of their own brain and what's happening there, then they might through
that, um, through the feedback, feedback loop, learn to quiet that area of their brain, uh, just by
observing it and observing what's going on. Um, so that, that's one, one possible therapy that I
think has been tried in the past with, with some effectiveness, um, narrow, narrow feedback.
I wonder if, like, um, kind of, yeah, sorry, I was going to be like, um, I, I thought about this,
um, in the sense of, like, if you just had, um, like a screen in front of somebody and you read out,
like, they were just looking at the words that popped into their head as they popped into their
head. I was just thinking what kind of effect that might have on people. And I could see that
being kind of therapeutic if you were, like, showing them, like, maybe some of their underlying
thoughts that they were fully conscious of and bringing that to the fore and, and showing that
to them so that they could then, you know, maybe cause that feedback.
I, I, I, I feel like I subscribe to that idea a lot in terms of, like, well, you know, what
has the history of meditation been about except asking people to just sit with awareness and
be aware of their own thoughts. And if you be, if you can just be aware of your thoughts,
you, um, maybe, maybe peace will descend upon on you, right? So that's this idea is like,
so meditation, uh, is a self-awareness practice humming. When you hum, you're hearing a sound
that your brainwaves are making, and then that is creating like a feedback loop. If you
see yourself in the mirror, uh, your eyes are seeing, uh, your body move and your brain is
causing your body move. And so your brain is, is there's a feedback cycle between your eyes
and your brainwaves and your movements? And so that is another form of like meditation.
So if you're humming or talking in front of the mirror and meditating, like these are
all like expanding your awareness. And then if you add like a light and sound machine that
it, that you're, you know, your list, the light and sounds are changing based upon your
actual, uh, EEG activity, which is something I did in 2012 in, uh, when I, I started a business
in San Francisco, then, um, people can listen, can, can begin to get a feedback loop between
how their thoughts and feelings are, um, you know, causing their brainwaves to change,
which is causing the light and it's just causing the light and sound in the computer to change
so that what they're seeing and hearing with the LED glasses and the headphones is reflecting
their thoughts and feelings. And this feedback loop, uh, can induce like a very deep meditative
state. And, and so like the, it's like, it's a lot of different ways people have done neurofeedback
and I just described several different ways, but, um, I, I am, I subscribe to this, this,
this idea that, yeah, if you, if we could, uh, put microphones or electrodes inside your
brain and allow you to listen to your own, uh, to your own thoughts, um, but on a computer
screen to see your own thoughts, then, um, potentially, yeah, that would have therapeutic
effects in terms of helping someone to relax and to expand their awareness around their own
brain. And it would be beneficial in a, in a, in a, in a peace growing, uh, emotionally
healing sort of way. I think I would wonder if, um, just thinking about psychosis and,
um, whether or not it could, you know, strengthen somebody's psychosis. Um, and so I think it would
still want to be like, you wouldn't want maybe that to be completely unfiltered, um, and maybe
have some safeguard. Yeah. But I'm not sure. Maybe that would, maybe it would help. Maybe it
would help psychosis, but I do feel like people, once they like, you know, they're so stuck on
their ideas and if those ideas became even more real to them by being in front of their
face, I feel like people with that kind of, um, right. All right. Yeah. Yeah. So, um, so
yeah, so a lot, a lot of the depression, uh, that some people have, you know, when they
describe, uh, ruminate, ruminating is the word ruminating, uh, symptoms where they just
keep thinking over the same depressive thoughts over and over again. And it's like this, it's
like the default mode network, uh, of brain activity is just sort of like putting them
into, into a mental holding pattern where all they, all they can do is like they keep having
the same, uh, depressed or basically thought unwanted thoughts over and over again. Maybe
they could be thoughts of, of, uh, of self-harm or harming others or, you know, just, just, you
know, sad thoughts that they don't want to have, but they just can't stop having because
their brain is like going through the cycle that they can't escape from. And then if you,
if you then, I guess if you say, well, if you just extended that, you know, sort of like
if you gave them, if you give a microphone to it and then just like reinforce it, that
would be terrible. And I agree that's not that, that, um, that, that would probably not
work. Um, what has worked in those situations, I think has been, um, you know, giving, even
giving the, the, that person's, um, that brain, the person's brain, uh, an extraordinary
amount of, of, uh, of stimulation to sort of break them out of that rumination.
And, and, um, and, uh, so that stimulation has come, come in, in, in many different forms
from, uh, electrical, electrically stimulating the brain to psychoactive medication, like
hallucinogens to, um, um, um, there's, there's a whole bunch of different things, uh, that,
uh, you know, you said like, so it was interesting is that, um, so serotonin reuptake inhibitors,
um, they, they, um, they're, they're sort of like clogging the, the serotonin, uh, receptors
in the, in the core of the brain. But then, um, like the psychoactive medication is, is, um,
is, uh, is a serotonin agonist, but it, it, it targets, um, the part of the brain that's
in the neocortex that's not in the core of the brain. So it's targeting serotonin receptors
that are not in the core of the brain. So, but the serotonin, the reuptake inhibitors are
targeting the serotonin receptors in, in the core of the brain. So like we're, here we have two
different sort of, um, medical, uh, approaches now that are under study. And, uh, one of them
was tried to, to basically try to, um, beat depression by targeting serotonin receptors in
the core of the brain. That's the old one. And the new one is to try to defeat depression by
targeting the serotonin receptors in the, um, in the neocortex, which is not in the core of
the brain. Um, and that is, uh, so that's, that's just interesting that the new therapy
that is being, is researching, that is being researched in terms of using psychedelic drugs
to treat patients with this default mode syndrome-based depression, um, is still targeting, uh, serotonin
receptors. It's very interesting. Um, but, but ultimately, um, the point of either one of
these medications would be, um, to basically cause a lot of stimulation in, in a certain
area of the brain. And so in that sense, they're analogous to basically using like something
like either transcranial direct stimulate, direct current stimulation, uh, to stimulate
the brain or trans, uh, cranial magnetic stimulation to stimulate the brain or, um, or, um, any number
of other things that can, that can stimulate the brain. There's, there's a handful of other
things. I'm blanking a little bit right now, but, but, but, but, and, and, but, I know I
just see this as like, um, our, so just briefly, I was thinking, um, one, one thought here is
like, I feel like a lot of depressive people, if they got out and they were able to start
stimulating themselves, we'll say like travel or, you know, new relationships and communities,
um, that, that stimulation is kind of like what they need in a lot of cases. But, but I
guess there's, there's definitely a, um, a more medical sense to it. Uh, but, uh, just
like this thought of stimulation being what gets people out of, um, you know, the ruts,
it's, it seems like, um, it makes sense why that would be maybe a response to a lack of
community and things like that. Well, I mean, I would just go a step further and say that
stimulating the brain, I think would not work in all situations of depression, especially
if the depression is based upon some sort of metabolic disorder, where the, basically
the root of it is that the patient's cells have been so damaged by overstimulation that
they're no longer able to produce enough energy to meet the energy demands of that person's
body. Um, and so certain kinds of depression, if you tried to add stimulation, I think would
result in the patient just getting worse in the longterm, even if they saw temporary, uh,
improvement, because you really want to basically, instead of treating them with more
stimulation, you, you may want to treat them with, um, uh, there's also another, another
thing is a light stimulation. You may want to treat them with something that can help,
um, them to, to either metabolize energy better or to create more ATP. The light simulation
is interesting. So they have this red light stimulation device that basically, um, what it
does is, uh, it actually, um, it not only stimulates your brain, but it stimulates your, uh, your
cells to create more ATP to, to, to, so there's a couple of things you need to create
more ATP. You need, you probably need more resources like, like, um, I don't know, like
D-Ribos can help your body to make more ATP, for example. But if you're, if you just flood
your body with, you know, D-Ribos, what, you know, the other thing is that your cells have
to actually go through the action of using the D-Ribos. And so this red light, uh, stimulation
that, that, uh, some people are receiving, uh, combined with D-Ribos might help someone's
body to make more energy, which may help them to alleviate depression, but you might want
to use that in combination with some sort of stimulation, like it could be a psychoactive
stimulation so that the patient is getting both the ability to create, um, new energy, uh,
and to escape the, the, the pattern of negativity that they're stuck in at the same time. But
if you, if you just tried to like give the patient a lot of new stimulation, they may just
get tired. And in fact, a lot of times what happens is after a patient has a stimulation
sort of, uh, therapy, they are tired for many days afterwards, uh, and very, very tired.
And so they can't think. And so maybe they have like great results right after TMS, but
then for the next week, they just, they, they, uh, are really just so they're just like in
a mental fog because they're just so tired and everybody needs to recover. So, so I think
there's, you know, we, science, scientists as a whole, the medical, um, the medical world
as a whole still has a lot of things to figure out. Was that good?
Just bad.
But, LaShawn, uh, is that how you pronounce your name? I don't know. Anyway, I'll just
say LaShawn.
Yeah.
I'm LaShawn. You said something about, um, people traveling and simulating themselves. And
I, I mean, I live in, I don't know if you live in the United States. I live in the United
States. Uh, there was a serious economic depression going on. There are a lot of people. It's not,
it's going to affect me, but I do, I do realize that it affects a lot of people, um, especially
among certain, um, demographics. They don't have the ability, uh, to, you know, to get
healthcare. Um, they can't fund that, um, let alone, um, travel, which is very sad. So we
need to fix those. We need to fix, uh, the economic issues at this point first. Um, it's, it's,
uh, it's, it's horrifying what's going on right now. I mean, especially my state anyway, California
definitely. It's like it's here and it's, um, it's definitely, I mean, it's a long-term
problem. I don't know how many countries have kind of escaped this kind of, um, where you
have, uh, you know, the has and the have nots. Um, but, uh, America certainly hasn't
done. And we, we need to, and I, I feel like that's going to happen here soon because of
technology. Um, and we'll be forced to recognize that labor is, it's not going to be enough to
keep everybody, you know, fed. And then once you don't need them to work to be fed, then
maybe you can let them be free and, um, we can build systems that actually do. But the
people that are not going to have jobs, they're going to have to survive somehow. And the prevailing,
the prevailing, um, thought out there, the prevailing way to fix this, prevailing thought
to fix it, I guess I'm, I'm being really inarticulate right now. I'm really tired is a
universal basic income, but I don't know how that's going to fix it either. I think maybe
the best way to do it is to go towards a resource-based economy, but then that's going
to cut out capitalism. So it's, it's a little confusing. Yeah, no, I think that's, uh, the
universal basic income is definitely, I think the way that a lot of people find, uh, that
will do this. But I, I do wonder like, um, if like right now equity is just so valuable
that if, um, you know, you get to a point where labor and work isn't needed and like you
don't, could that, you know, prevent social mobility. So you have people with these, with
UBI and they can, you know, get the base, but they don't have any social progression. Um,
I think that's maybe a risk of UBI and, um, uh, yeah, I don't know. There could be other,
other issues there. And then, yeah, other kinds like resource-based economy. Um, there was
this, um, like it is like, if we get to the point that we all have, you know, great computer
interfaces and all can think, you know, as, as intelligently as we want, um, or something
like, like if just the, the base capability of the human being continues to rise, um, and
it reaches some kind of point that we can all kind of see past the systems in place and
recognize that we don't have to let that all, you know, dictate our existence. Um, maybe
we'll just, you know, stop the machine and just start, uh, existing. I don't, but, but
who knows what, how technology will actually play out and if it'll just create new systems
that are more controlling or less controlling or how, how things will play out.
All right. Well, I'm going to head out. I'm going to say goodnight because I gotta, I gotta,
I gotta go, but, um, it was really nice talking to all of you. Yeah, it's been really great
because that's, uh, I love listening to you and definitely taught me a lot, actually.
Say goodnight.
