=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0304y spoke to Subatai Neurons Dendrites Column
First recorded: 2021-04-26T03:45:54.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/c1d9f4c2-6947-45e3-846a-5613dd3ca3fb
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
That perception is so stable, and he just, he talks about how, you know, those stable representations are likely being held by a very, very small percentage of neurons, so I think he says like 2% of the, so I mean, I think it's all compatible, I don't, I don't see where the thousand brain theory clashes with that.
Can I, can I jump in?
Yes, please do, thank you.
Okay, by the way, I noticed that Subutai is next to me here on the stage, and he's from Numenta, and he's part of, he's part of the team that developed the thousand brain theory, so he should definitely get a chance to speak, but I wanted to say that, you know, when you're measuring the, when you're, when you're looking at the brain to see, to see, to look for the neural correlates of, of what someone is seeing right now, I would say that the firing that's happening, you know, it's, it's oscillatory, as, as Katerina said, it's, it's oscillatory because it's, it is, it is, there's inhibition,
happening all the time that's, that's breaking up the, the, the constant flow of excitation, which allows, you know, inform, that may be the key to, for, for the brain to be able to, uh, maintain, uh, some, some, uh, discrete knowledge of information, because we have all this inhibition happening, um, and, uh, but what I was gonna say was that, um,
at any given time, when you're looking at a, a group of neurons as oscillating, that, you should think of it as, not just representing what they're seeing right at that moment, but also representing, you know, like the past, at least the past 10 seconds, and maybe like the past, uh, um, you know, several minutes of their day, that, that is still sort of like oscillating in there, and it's not just gonna be representative of what you're, what's happening right now, and I think of it, if, you know, neurons fire in, in, they, they, they fire in huge groups of oscillations,
and maybe, you might see, um, a neural, uh, uh, a neural correlation to something that you're looking for, like, in terms, in terms of a change happening to, to, to, to one neuron, and, uh, you know, but if that neuron speeds up or slows down, the rest of the, the group that is, that they're oscillating with is going to, uh, pull them back into the same, like, sort of, uh, pattern of oscillations, and so it's eventually gonna, like, renormalize, and maybe what's happening is that the changes are happening, but there are changes that are happening to, um, basically, uh,
to, to, like, subtle speeds to the, to the, like, what I imagine is, like, you have, basically, this constant sort of, like, rendering of your reality in terms of all the modalities happening everywhere in your brain, and the incoming senses just need to modify small parts of this, just a little bit of your neural activity in order to shift what you're already rendering to include the new patterns, uh, of what you're, of what you're now experiencing, but if you're, if you're just looking for straight-up neural correlations, you're not gonna be, it's gonna probably be difficult to decode, you know,
what one thing is in one instant, because it's not, because what you're looking at is not just the representation of that one thing in that one instant, it's the representation of a longer period of time, uh, so that was what I had to say, and welcome, Subutai.
So, if I may, sorry to interrupt, I have the floor, because he hasn't had a chance to speak yet, and literally the last 30 to 40 minutes of this discussion has been about his area of domain expertise, so if you don't mind, let's let Subutai have a say, and then we'll come back to you, Katerina.
Uh, thanks, Kami. Um, yeah, I just sort of stumbled onto this discussion by accident, um, Subutai, I work with Jeff Hawkins at Memento on the Thousand Brains Theory.
Uh, honestly, it's been really fun just being a fly on the wall, listening to this discussion. Um, I think it's been really informed, and the questions have been great. Um, you know, I pretty much agree 100% with everything Wissam has been saying.
Um, I think he's, he's, uh, you know, articulating, uh, the, the points of the theory and how it matches some of the, the neuroscience really, really well.
Um, you know, I'm happy to answer questions on the Thousand Brains Theory if people have it, but I think, uh, the discussion has been great.
In terms of, um, you know, maybe just quickly some of the stuff, you know, Tom, you mentioned, uh, the, you know, the different sensory, uh, either inputs that we get, the diversity of sensory inputs, and, um,
you know, any percept that we have and inferences that we have really take into account the evidence that we're getting from, you know, uh, uh, uh, diversity of different sensory inputs.
And even within a sensory modality like touch, we're getting input from, you know, all different parts of our body.
And the Thousand Brains Theory is very much consistent with all of that, and, um, it's probably one of the few theories that actually explains it.
Um, and in the, in the anatomy, if you look at the anatomy and the neocortex, there are tons of these long-range lateral connections that cross modalities, um, from somatosensory to visual to auditory to visual and, and all over the place.
And, uh, these are not really explained by a traditional hierarchical model, and the, um, Thousand Brains Theory is one of the reasons we got to that theory, was trying to explain connections like that, um, on there.
Uh, so that's, you know, it's definitely very, very consistent with that, um, you, you, you, you know, so in terms of, uh, predictive coding, um, it's very much based on a predictive model.
Um, and I think we, predictive coding has a pretty Bayesian kind of mathematical foundation, um, and some of that's, uh, pretty useful, uh, not sure that we really embrace all of that.
So the idea that if you're predicting perfectly that there's literally zero information being said, I don't think that matches the, the, uh, physiology very well.
Um, you know, we are, even when things are, uh, matching extremely well, we still have a very strong notion of what the inference is at any point in time.
I mean, that inference can be used as context for future decisions, and there's definitely neural activity representing inferences, even if they're very well predicted.
However, that activity is a lot smaller.
Typically, when you have, uh, surprises and so on, um, the activity sort of really ramps up, uh, uh, in different parts of the, the neocortex.
Um, so this, uh, you know, I think I'm just, uh, reiterating things that Wissam has already said, but, uh, really enjoying the discussion and happy to answer your questions.
If any people haven't?
I think there's confusion here that needs clearing up, though it would really help.
Oh, sorry to interrupt, but before we have any questions, I just want to reset the room because we have so many people who have joined us, and, um, I want to welcome our audience and thank our speakers and our wonderful moderators, uh, to the Future Brain Club.
It's synthetic intelligence versus biological, the biological brain, um, that's our discussion for tonight, um, and I really want to thank everyone for the incredibly, um, respectful and polite discourse.
We are an inclusive club, and we are respectful, and, um, we don't interrupt other speakers, and it's been absolutely an incredible experience with so many incredible intellects in this room, in the audience.
So I'm super grateful, and I just want to express that.
There's been some people who have been waiting, you know, if you're, if there's something that you want to say or ask.
See, Kenneth flashing his mic, Krista, um, Diane, did you flash your mic?
And Jeff, would it be okay, Dexter, if we could just let them have a chance, have a go, and then circle back?
Yeah, sure.
Thank you so much, Dexter, I really appreciate it.
Kenneth, welcome, the floor is yours.
Thank you very much, Kami.
So, I'll, I'll be as brief as I can.
Um, I, what I want to hear is the, the, first of all, acknowledgement that efficiency is so very important, and, and with regard to, obviously, how the brain works, but also, uh, the notion of a synthetic, synthetic intelligence.
Since we have to figure out some of the efficiencies that will allow us to get the kind of performance that the human brain and, and, you know, that, that living things do naturally.
And so, one of the areas that, that I think is really important, my co-founder and I, we've been working on this for about a decade, is, uh, is, is creating what we call a semantic periodic chart for computing.
It basically comprises 256 elements, and their, their, their, their tiny little two and three letter designations, and the, the, the actual letters don't matter as much as it does how they're organized to represent meaning.
And, and, and by doing so, what we can do is map those, uh, semantic elements, those, uh, semantic elements, those 256 elements, to not only what the machine can recognize in, in terms of what it needs to generate code, machine level code, assembly, uh, in a lot of cases that's highly parallelized, but it can also be mapped the other way to, to human meaning.
What we understand natural language, and, in fact, it's sort of, you know, if you, you study semiotics, how, how meaning is made using signs, symbols, language, you know, uh, semantics, syntactics, if you bring those together in a system that can respond to, in, in, in this case, 256 elements or, or map to it, and then use that mapping to generate code.
I think we're on our way to some pretty phenomenal breakthroughs, and, in fact, we're seeing some pretty stunning results in terms of real-time representation of meaning that's basically expressed, um, in, in one of those ways that, by the way, is, is a human strength, and, and, and I'll, I'll finish just by saying, I think we have to figure this out pretty soon.
I don't know if others agree with me. I think we're running out of time. As, as, as AI gets smarter, as quantum computing advances and so on, um, programming languages plays to the strength of the machine, right?
All the, all the effort is around making the machine, uh, able to understand what we want it to do, versus the majority of humans don't know how to do that.
So, uh, I think it's, it plays to our strength to map, uh, what we mean and how we represent meaning to something that machines can understand.
And I'll, I'll, I'll stop there.
Kenneth, what a beautiful sentiment. I, I love, I love what you had to say. Thank you for sharing that.
Jayam and Jeff. Oh, yes. I'm sorry, Jeff. Uh, Kenneth, you want to say something?
I just said thank you.
Oh, my goodness. You're welcome. Thank you.
Thank you. And, um, Krista, Jayam, and Jeff, was there something you wanted to say or ask? Welcome.
Hi. I wanted to ask, going back to the mouse model, I wanted to ask about the engrams.
If you're talking, are you talking about, are you saying that you're mapping out the pathway of neuronal firing?
Or are you saying that you know exactly which neurons are firing?
Or are you saying where, you know exactly where a memory is stored or all three?
Can you clarify?
Oh, exactly. I would never say exactly.
But, uh, we are tracing with those engrams.
Sounds like, uh, we are tracing which, which neurons, like, let's say in a specific context,
um, there's more activity, so you have, um, sufficient activity that they, um, send out a fluorescent signal.
It's not that there's absolutely no activity elsewhere, but those, uh, neurons have, like, um, LTP, basically,
because you need to activate, uh, genes, um, that, that, that generate an LTP,
and we know those genes, basically, like, the first responder genes, let's say,
and, um, when those genes are, are activated enough, we will see a fluorescent signal,
and we can, we can trace those, let's say, in the amygdala, or in the hippocampus, and so on.
Uh, and then, uh, we see them again light up when the animals are exposed again to that context,
let's say, combined with the tone, or, uh, with other memories.
Um, and then, when we do extensions, um, training those neurons, for example, over time,
become less active and don't light up as much.
Uh, exact is, it's never, you know, we are never 100% exact, but we can follow, basically, um,
um, activity over time, uh, while doing those different behavioral assessments, and tests, and so on.
I just wanted to add a, a little detail.
Efficient, because efficiency, I'm, I also think efficiency is important.
However, we should think that the brain is known, especially throughout development,
to be very, very wasteful.
So, we, uh, the, the mammalian brain creates thousands of neurons in the beginning, during development,
that will be actively destroyed when they are not getting used.
Um, yes, and I, um, I have to say that optogenetics happens to be one of my favorite topics,
because I just find it absolutely saltifying, that you can activate with the combination of the
transgenic mice, and, and whatnot, okay.
But I have tweeted out, justly modern, to studies, and it just, it's a brief walk we have had.
Intelligence, aka, artificial intelligence machinery, versus biological, specifically human.
Technology, biology, this is an open discussion, it's meant to be a stimulating conversation,
in a respectful manner, in this club, and I wanted to ask, uh, Dr. Q, do you have any thoughts,
would you like to impart upon this subject?
And this was written by researchers from, uh, Salt Institute, uh, for biological studies,
and they studied the biological system.
So, they studied the, uh, olfactory system of fruit flies,
and they identified an algorithm forms, something called locality-sensitive hashing,
which is a classic machine learning problem as well.
And what they found was, the algorithm that is used by a fruit flyer to distinguish between
different orders, has, you think, where you take things like SHA-256,
these are, these are, like, used to store our password, SHA-1 and so on.
These are, like, used to store our passwords and everything.
So, hashes are used to, kind of, obscure what locality-sensitive hashing does is quite different.
Uh, so what this does is, let's say you have a large vector, which is a, uh, high-dimensional vector,
and you want to figure out whether two vectors are close to each other, in, you know,
how to do that if you want to do it real-time, because, in, so, cosine distance between very
high-dimensional vectors, thing does is, it, that you're able to, like, find similar images.
So, uh, for example, uh, if you, like, do Google reverse image search,
search results, you do find images which look visually similar too.
So, that is an example of what locality-sensitive hashing can do.
So, this paper was, uh, it was a system that's a small circuit of, of fruit flies,
and they figured out the algorithm themes, uh, common themes that, that have been mentioned
in the room, which were in this algorithm, for, uh, neurons didn't fire at the same time,
and there was this very big theme of sparsity, because, due to a way, it gives us better stable
to, to resources, you will to distinguish between different orders.
The paper is called, how this ties into my question is, to these researchers, and I kind of
suggested, uh, and actually worked, I think this on account, which are efficient and work
well on silicon-based systems, are probably not, you know, they, they don't overlap with
the space of algorithms, which work well on biological systems.
So, as an engineer who just wants to build things, I'm just wondering, uh, whether, you
know, we are limited in terms of what works, and in actual, uh, machine learning.
And, uh, I think, uh, if people are aware of neuromorphic computing, so, Intel has been
investing heavily in, uh, in neuromorphic computing, and they have this test chip called
Loehi.
People, uh, some other group, uh, they showed that they could run, uh, they could take this
algorithm of fruit fly, and they could run it on their neuromorphic computing chip, and it
was, like, vastly much more energy efficient, and performed better than, uh, you know, your
silica, your conventional look at these systems.
That's a theme I'm getting to.
Are we really limited by the fact that we are just using CMOS-based circuits, and the things
that tend to work here are very different from the things that tend to work well in actual
biological systems?
Yeah, I'm wondering.
The properties you mention about really high-dimensional, sparse systems are evident in the neocortex
as well, not just in fruit flies.
It's a sort of a fundamental property of representations in the neocortex, and we think it's, uh, one
of the reasons, not the only reason, but one of the reasons why the neocortex is so much
more efficient than, uh, today's computational systems.
Uh, the human brain runs on the equivalent of something like 40 watts of power, which is
a low-end light bulb.
Um, it's, you know, so much more efficient than today's deep learning systems and GPU-based
systems and stuff.
And we do think there has to be different hardware architectures that are required to really exploit
some of these properties.
And if you can represent things as high-dimensional, sparse systems, there's some really, uh, interesting
computational and functional advantages that you can gain.
So this is, I think, an area where we can actually learn, you know, hardware design and
actual algorithms can learn a lot from the way the brain works at a very, very detailed kind
of mechanistic level.
Um, and so this is, um, you know, very much, uh, a big part of, uh, what we're researching
and, and very much, uh, a direction that we hope, uh, uh, the, the industry will move towards.
Diane, I love your question.
Um, before you were in the room, I had actually brought up neuromorphic computing and the fact
that we can also, um, uh, uh, store data in DNA.
I will also tweet out later some articles that I've written about, um, scientific papers
on neuromorphic computing.
And I am super excited to hear, Supetai, that this is something that Nuventa's excited about
because I wasn't aware of that.
And I really love the conversions across, uh, disciplines.
I believe that's where innovation occurs, not only at the edge, but also, um, in between.
And if I may, Jeff, I believe you were next.
And then David and Leon.
Thank you, Cami, for not only this room on intelligence, but your very intelligent moderation.
Ashen was at Supetai.
I was there on the set, so thank you.
It was quite a lot of time with us here on Clubhouse, so I appreciate that.
And thanks for being here.
Crown is in AI.
I've been, um, applying various tools of AI to the industry of digital health since 2001.
Uh, so I, I have a fair, uh, sense both as a computer scientist and as a person that actually
builds these tech companies, which you have been doing.
And, uh, obviously being based here in Silicon Valley, uh, you know, I see quite a, a lot
of business plans that purport to be AI or some facet of AI.
And they're still pretty far off from what we talked about and were taught at MIT.
The field had the potential to become so really excited to see, once again, Nuventa pushing
the bar, uh, to a different level.
Um, I guess the two questions I have for you, Supetai, are the following.
How far along do you think things are at Nuventa?
I know, uh, you guys have just started the early stages of, of implementing the Thousand
Brains, um, approach.
Uh, I actually just got my book from Amazon.
I'm really excited to pour into that just as soon as I get my taxes done.
Um, but in the field of computer science and probably all of science, we, we tend to see
projects that range from Doug Lenart's, uh, implementation of psych, which he thought
was going to take 15 years, ended up taking 30 years.
So that's one end of the scale of implementation depth, uh, to really how quickly, uh, companies
like DeepMind were able to apply deep learning to what's, uh, moving from chess to go, um, which
was order of magnitude, uh, a few months instead of, uh, several, a couple decades.
Uh, so my first question to you is how long do you think it'll take for us to start cracking,
uh, implementations, um, of, of using intelligence on this new architecture that you guys have
been thinking through?
Um, and then the second question I have is I know, uh, since, uh, Jeff wrote the book
on intelligence way back, which was the start of it all, uh, the whole approach was to be
about informing computer scientists, uh, how to think about the world of the brain and,
and start the basic modeling of what neurons and collections of neurons and, you know, the
whole system of, of, of what the neuro cortex is, uh, to start the thinking correctly.
Um, what, what would you say is the difference with the thousand brains and maybe this is
a bit of a reset, but it sounds like there's a few people like me who are new to this room,
but what would you say is, is the thrust of the thousand brains initiative and, you know,
how, how, um, how do you think it's going to change how scientists and computer scientists,
uh, um, change their, their reaction to how they go about implementing synthetic intelligence?
Thanks.
I'm Jeff.
I'm done speaking.
Oh, thanks.
Um, and thanks for, uh, participating in the session on Friday.
Uh, that was really a great session.
Um, let's see.
So to kind of answer your questions in terms of how far along are we are, you know, it's
always a hard thing to predict the future, but, um, you know, we have started the process
of trying to take what we know from the neuroscience at a very detailed level and applying them
to machine learning and deep learning, uh, with the idea that there are, uh, significant
components of that, that deep learning could really use.
And we could towards, uh, towards the goal of building, you know, truly intelligent systems
and to really have truly intelligent systems.
We, we, we strongly believe that they have to be built on a lot of the same fundamental
principles that are, we find in the, in the neuroscience.
So we are very much a neuroscience driven, um, you know, our roadmap is very much driven
by what we get from the neuroscience, um, in terms of how far along we've worked.
Um, the foundation of a lot of our stuff is sparsity, which we've already talked a little
bit about.
And so we focused quite a bit on sparsity and we've been, um, we've now gotten very good
at creating extremely sparse, high dimensional deep learning systems that work very efficiently
on, on hardware and particularly FPGAs and so on.
So that's sort of a foundational piece that I think we're pretty far along and hopefully
we'll be having, uh, uh, some announcements in the near future on that.
Um, well, recently we just, we did announce one thing where we showed that, uh, with, with
the appropriate type of sparsity you can, and the appropriate hardware architectures, you
can get a 50 X to a 100 X improvement in terms of overall throughput and speed and, and efficiency,
um, compared to sort of traditional kind of more dense, uh, representations and dense deep
learning systems.
So that's sort of one foundational piece that we're pretty far along.
The other, uh, pieces that we're working on, uh, quite a bit is, um, one is just our
understanding of the neuron itself.
Um, neuroscientists understand neurons far better than deep learning systems.
In deep learning systems, uh, in deep learning systems, the neurons are extremely simplistic,
whereas real biological neurons are quite complicated.
If you look at pyramidal neurons, uh, which is the most common type of neurons in the, in
the neocortex, um, they have very complex, um, what's called dendritic arbors with fairly
complex computations that are going on throughout the neuron.
Um, and these have both sort of interesting spatial properties and interesting temporal dynamics
and interesting plasticity or learning properties.
And so we are very much involved in incorporating those ideas into deep learning systems.
And we found those will be very important in getting systems that are truly continually learning,
uh, which deep learning systems today are, are not, um, to be able to build truly continually
learning systems, learning systems and to be able to build systems that learn from prediction
errors and from, without requiring really large label data sets.
Uh, so this is another thing that we're, um, uh, currently working on.
And then the, the last couple of things, and this sort of ties to your second question about
what's really different about the thousand brain theory.
One of the big things that Jeff emphasizes in the book is the whole concept of reference frames.
Uh, and, uh, probably don't have time to get into it today, but the basic idea that the,
you know, cortex builds a map of objects and builds a map of concepts, uh, and it's literally
like a physical map with, uh, a location-based, uh, you know, reference frame that we can move
around in actively.
And so those are concepts that we are working towards incorporating into, into, uh, deep learning
systems as well.
Um, so hopefully I tried to answer a little bit of your question.
I don't want to take up, uh, you know, too much of the time on the stage, but those are,
uh, some of the things we're working on.
And one of the big differences between on intelligence and the thousand brain theory is
that we understand, uh, the, the idea of reference frames, uh, a lot more than we used to before.
Okay.
I kind of have a follow-up.
Yes, please.
Okay.
Um, so this question is to Supertai.
So, um, yeah, back in November, I, I saw the, uh, the press release from Nementa that
there was, uh, sparsity enables 50, uh, 50, uh, times performance acceleration in deep
learning neural networks.
And so I, I went out and started asking people that I know in deep learning, like, well, do
we have anything like that in, in, in deep learning?
And they said, they pointed me to sparse networks and they said that, you know, people are using
sparse networks, uh, uh, already.
And, uh, that even the people at, uh, GP3, uh, who are working on GP3 at OpenAI, um, that
they're, that they have tried to use, uh, something like sparse networks in the current version
of, uh, of GP3 and, uh, but they're still not like, there's, so I just, what, what my question
to you is, um, what, what's really the difference, um, with SDRs that Nementa uses and, and what,
what everyone else is using to achieve, uh, sparsity and efficiency in deep learning.
Um, yeah, so, um, I think Scott Gray at, at OpenAI incorporating sparsity into their systems.
Um, the, the thing that's different from what we're doing, which really comes again from the
neuroscience, is that, um, one, the, the, in order to really exploit sparsity, you have
to have extremely high dimensional systems.
So you have a very small number of active neurons at a time, but they're embedded in a
much higher dimensional system, and that gives you, uh, tremendous representational power.
It's much harder to get that if you have lower dimensional sparse systems.
And so, just the idea of having, you know, so dimensionality is a big piece of it, um,
and the second thing is that in the neocortex, it's not just the fact that the neurons themselves
are sparse.
It's, it's not just that only a small percent of neurons are active.
It turns out that the connectivity between neurons is also extremely sparse.
And so, when you think about, when you think about deep learning systems, if you have sparse
activations, you get a sparse vector coming in, and if you have a sparse connectivity,
you have a sparse weight matrix, now you're doing sparse, sparse computations.
So you're taking sparse vectors and matrices and multiplying with sparse vectors and matrices.
And if you can really exploit that, um, a tiny fraction of the actual multiplies are going
to have non-zeros on both sides of the multiply.
And so, if you can build the right hardware architecture to really pick up on those pieces,
those only focus on the, uh, the multiplies where you have non-zeros on both sides, you can
get a tremendous, uh, efficiency boost.
Um, and so I quoted sort of these 50x to 100x numbers.
I think we can actually get a lot better than that, uh, over time, but it's really exploiting
the sort of sparse, sparse, uh, nature of the computation.
And, and GPUs are not good at that, unfortunately.
Um, you need a lot of sort of irregular computation and stuff going on.
That's why we decided to experiment with FPGAs first.
Does that make sense?
I wanted to mention that this notion of sparse, it actually goes all the way to that, too.
Can, can I ask, uh, a couple of questions?
Um, sparse distributed numbers.
I think, I think, Leanne, uh, your mic is very low.
Uh, I don't think, uh, so can I hear that?
I don't know if other people did.
No, didn't hear.
Sorry about that.
Yeah, I just thought I'd point out that the notion of the importance of sparseness,
it actually goes all the way back to the heat.
As well, so we, we, we keep in touch with him.
I think he's mostly retired, uh, but he's, um, he's definitely still around.
And he's been advising a few scratch students at UC Berkeley that we're in touch with.
People sometimes get to hear about the work we've been doing recently.
And really the recognition or the acknowledgement of the sort of informational complexity
of the, uh, dendritic arbors and the information they've processed.
And I'm wondering just in any of the pulses matters threshold model.
You know, a standard linear weighted sum plus a non-linearity cannot capture that, uh, complexity.
There's a lot of temporal dynamics that are going on.
As I mentioned, there's sort of learning related stuff.
And there's probably a lot of stuff for sure.
There's a lot of stuff we don't understand yet.
Having said that, um, I don't think it's too complex to model.
Um, we've gotten pretty far by abstracting away some of that into sort of functional components
and whether it's learning algorithms or, um, uh, you know, temporal rules and so on.
Um, we're probably not capturing the full nuance of what's actually going on in paraphernal neurons,
but it's not clear that we really need to model all of the biological substrate.
And this is part of the trick.
I'm not saying we're doing it perfectly, but some of it's pure implementation specific
and some of it's really conceptual and important and functional.
And part of our challenge, I think, as modelers and theorists, all of us, uh, is to really
find what that balance, where is the dividing line, what are the truly important, necessary
functional components, and what is just, you know, pure implementation detail.
Um, and that's, there's, you know, at least there's no clear right answer.
We've taken a cut at it, but I think we do have to find where that, that separation is.
I think that's going to be the answer to, to, to the problem we posed.
Okay, as my last quick follow-up, I just want to acknowledge and praise your approach of your
team, because it's kind of an outlier approach, right?
Every, like most, 98% of the industry is just banking on, you know, more of the same, like
scale the same old deep neural network models, uh, so-called.
Um, and you guys are doing something truly different, and maybe many people think it isn't
necessary.
I suspect it may be fundamentally required.
So, thank you for doing what you're doing.
Thank you so much.
I have a follow-up, but I have a follow-up with the, oh, sorry, just real quick, uh, just
real quick, uh, just real quick, which I have a quick follow-up based on that, with what
Karina was asking.
I didn't get a chance to ask you this in the last room, but, um, do you folks have
any, uh, have any crucial insights into, like, the learning algorithm, or algorithms,
I should say, um, uh, that are actually taking place biologically?
And you've kind of alluded to this here when you said that, hey, you know, that there's
some dynamics at the, at the dendritic level that neurons are doing, we're not capturing
that today in artificial networks, which is very true.
So, along those lines, I mean, you know, learning algorithm, I think, is what this kind of comes
down to.
Do you folks have any, like, insights onto what's going on there?
I mean, today, we're, you know, people talk about backprop all day.
What sort of insights do you folks have, you know, within that arena?
Because I think that that's, that's also a very important facet.
Yeah, it is, and, and, um, so that's a, that's a long, very interesting question.
There's a lot of different answers I could give.
I mean, fundamentally, the idea that the, you know, predictions are being made even at
the level of individual neurons, and then when input comes in, each neuron is actually
computing prediction errors, and, and learning based on that is, uh, something we talked about,
uh, back in a paper in 2016 that we published, um, and that allows, kind of, neurons to learn
without explicit, uh, you know, top-down supervision, as, as, is true, as happens in
backpropagation.
So, that's sort of one, uh, possible thing.
You know, there are a lot of stuff you can get directly from the neuroscience evidence.
So, one of the things is that there are many different types of plasticity in the neocortex,
uh, and these happen at very different timescales.
So, there's very short-term adaptation, which happens at the level of minutes, uh, there's
long-term, uh, potentiation, which takes hours or days, um, and there's, uh, you know, there's
a bunch of different, uh, timescales in between as well, and there's, um, different neuromodulators
that come into play during plasticity that, uh, are not really modeled very well in, in the,
uh, in, in deep learning.
There's stuff, um, you know, a lot of the neuron, uh, plasticity that happens in neurons
is very branch-specific, meaning, um, you know, we talked about the dendritic computations
that happen.
Some of it's very, sort of, non-linear and active and very localized to small parts of
the dendrites.
So, there might be a small part of the dendrites that release, detects some sort of a pattern,
um, and it initiates what's called an NMDA spike.
Um, and when the neuron does eventually send out an action potential, uh, the learning is
often localized to exactly the dendritic segment that initiated the NMDA spike.
So, the learning itself, it's almost, it's forming an associative connection between the
pattern that just happened and the, the neuron itself firing.
And so, those mechanisms have been studied, and there's nothing like that, uh, in, in deep
learning.
So, these are just some examples, uh, you know, some of it we have our theories of, but
a lot of it you can just get directly by, by looking at the, the neuroscience data and
the neuroscience evidence.
Can I, can I ask you a couple of questions?
If you wouldn't mind.
I was, uh, about to ask a question with someone, if that's okay.
No worries.
Uh, it's, it's just along the lines, if you're gonna branch in a different direction.
This is on, on the current thread.
Uh, so, Ptai, under the, um, you're following from Creon's questions, uh, question, comments
on others, extracting, uh, you know, not a sort of attempt to remake the brain, uh, writ
large, but the principles, uh, of, you know, specific, um, or, or, uh, the pure principles,
you might say, that can be extracted from the brain, what do you make of things like active
inference, uh, free energy principle, those kinds of things, which are being used both
in, uh, uh, uh, analysis of, and investigation into brain functions, um, pathology, uh, you
know, pathology, that kind of thing, but also in informing, um, artificial intelligence
strategies, particularly search strategies, those kinds of things.
Um, I'd just be curious if your comments there, because the free energy principle and active
inference answer, or, or at least they, um, yeah, they answer in their, uh, ambition to
notions of sparsity and, uh, also to high dimensionality, uh, so I was just curious whether
they're relevant or incorporated into your thinking.
Um, so both, both active inference and the free energy principle, I think can be under
the larger umbrella, predictive coding, and Carl Fristen's, uh, a lot of his ideas.
Um, and we do get some inspiration from that, um, I think from myself, and I think, I shouldn't
speak for Jeff, but I think for Jeff too, we get a lot more out of the actual experimental
results and the biophysical results, um, and, you know, looking at the anatomical findings
and so on, because that's much more mechanistic, and if we're building actual algorithms, um,
you know, we, we certainly, you know, get a lot more inspiration from that side of it,
rather than the very kind of high level view.
I mean, we do read those papers, we're in touch with some of the researchers there, um,
and there's, you know, definitely an overlap in roles that happen, uh, details about sparsity
and the numbers of neurons that are active, um, you know, this idea of reference frames,
um, you know, comes directly from the grid cell and place cell, uh, literature.
Those kind of things, uh, you know, really inform the way we are going about it, and that's
our preference, is to go from the experimental literature and try to build up from there.
Um, yeah, so I just had a couple questions for you, Subutai, um, this, this, this area of
dendritic computation, that's like, that's my wheelhouse, that's what I, that's what I study,
uh, biophysical mechanisms and, and, and learning roles and how that all works.
But, um, my question with regard to dendrites from reading the book, I, you know, I have strong
opinions about this, but, uh, from reading the book, I got the impression that, uh, the thought
there was that dendrites played a large role, that there was, there would be a lot of, uh,
dendritic computations or, uh, dendritic spikes more specifically. Um, and I'm curious whether
that's, uh, if you agree with, with that interpretation, or if not, I definitely would
like to hear what, what you're thinking about in terms of that. And then the, the last question
I have is, there's also this other notion in the book that I, that I agree with, or I at least want
to agree with, with this idea that, uh, you know, the canonical, the cortical column is a canonical
circuit and it's more, um, regular than it is, uh, varying, uh, in general. Um, and so then it,
there's this kind of, uh, notion that there's a canonical circuit that's computing something, uh,
you know, the, using these reference frames. So there's this, like, notion of a general learning
algorithm. And I'm curious, um, what you think, how you think that, uh, I've been thinking about this
myself, but I'll leave my own thoughts out of it. But how do you feel this, uh, interacts with, uh,
something like the, no, no free lunch theorem? Um, yeah. So those two questions are very different
scales. Um, at the dendritic level, yeah, where our models are very much built on dendritic spikes and,
um, dendritic spikes are very critical to the functionality and the algorithms that we're
building. Um, so I think the best place, if you want to look at that, I mean, the, the book tried
to explain some of that, but obviously couldn't go into a lot of detail. You can look at our 2006 paper,
2016 paper. Um, and, you know, very briefly, the, the idea there is that what's happening is when you
have an active dendritic segment, it's detecting some sparse pattern from some surrounding area.
And that, that is acting like detecting some sort of a contextual signal, something happens somewhere
that's relevant to this neuron. And then you get an NMDA spike, which as you know, depolarizes the
soma for about 50 to a hundred milliseconds. And that essentially what that's like is putting a neuron
into an upstate. It's putting the neuron into a state where if it does fire, it's likely to fire a
little bit faster or a little bit stronger. Um, and so we call that a prediction. It's like a,
it's like a, you could think of each dendritic segment, again, detecting a context and the neuron,
uh, priming itself to fire based on some context. So, and, and whether or not based on whether it
actually does fire or not, that then triggers plasticity in these dendritic segments. Um, so I'm
not sure exactly what the, if you had a specific question there, but dendritic segments and dendritic
spikes and the active dendritic properties and the plasticity that are super critical to every aspect
of our model, including reference frame computations and so on. Um, but yeah.
When you're, when you're talking about dendritic spikes, then you're mainly talking about the NMDA
spike, but are you also thinking about the plateau potential, the actual calcium spike at the, uh,
apical tuft? Yeah, we, we've, uh, we've done a little bit of that. Um, so that's a very strong
dendritic spike, uh, as you know, um, you know, even NMDA spikes have a plateau potentials. Um, you
know, they tend to last about 50 to a hundred milliseconds. It's much longer time duration than,
and then an axonal spike or a sodium spike. Um, the, the calcium, uh, spikes are, you know,
based on context, again, that's detected at the apical dendrites. And so, you know, apical dendrites
also have NMDA spikes. Um, if the calcium integration zone is depolarized and then the neuron,
then as far as an actual potential, you get this sort of really strong, uh, calcium spike and,
and really strong learning as, as you probably know. So those are another way, another type
of context that's processed. Uh, I think we're getting very much into the details. I'm happy to
talk about it, but, um, you know, you can take a bit as processing context from, uh, feedback
that's coming into layer one into the apical dendrites. Any thoughts on the, the no free lunch
theorem though? Um, yeah, so the no free lunch theorem for those who don't know is basically a
machine learning theorem that says, um, that there's no, no learning algorithm is better than
and you can basically, it's all about what assumptions your algorithms make. And so in
the absence of any structure or any sort of knowledge about the world, you can pick any learning algorithm
you want and it's going to be probably just as good as any other. The issue is, uh, this is where
cortical columns come in is we don't live in a completely unstructured random world. We live in a
world with very definite structure. And so we definitely believe the cortical column and the
learning algorithms in there are biased towards the structure that we see in physical worlds and
in our life. And if so, there are definitely areas that, you know, no free lunch is still true,
but we're not living in a no free lunch world. We're living in a world where there is definite
structure. And if you were to give us inputs that are completely random and, um, don't follow,
you know, any sort of recognizable structure that the cortical algorithm is not going to do well.
So it's very much biased towards structure that we see in the real world.
Okay. Yeah. So I was like trying to reconcile this myself, having read the book and
some of my thoughts and my bias toward wanting to believe that as well, the big format problems,
information that format, um, you know, you know, we say the cortical, a certain, certain types of
structure that I could, uh, I could jump in, uh, and that's the song. So JP, uh, so I kind of have a
follow-up to YSAM and, uh, super time, uh, we're saying, I hope I'm getting your name right. Uh, YSAM,
uh, maybe, um, interrupt me if not. Um, but so. Just WESAM. WESAM. Okay. Uh, now I know WESAM. Uh,
so, uh, uh, regarding the, um, NDMA spike, um, and of course the dendritic can kind of the backward
spike and the forward spike. And, uh, I think the book, um, from Nementa, from Jeff, uh, was talking
about how a forward spike can be a prediction, right? It can be part of how a neuron predicts that,
that it's going to fire. Is there some sort of, that, the dendrite, uh, so in, in the,
in the first book, um, so on intelligence, which is a 2004, I think, um, there was this idea that
the spines of the dendrite, uh, might, they might represent, and I guess the spines are formed from
long-term potentiation. If, if that could be correct or not correct, I'm not sure that you could answer
that. Um, the spines might store temporal information, um, and possibly also spatial information
that the, the, the neuron would use to detect, uh, sort of, like, set its own criteria to figure out
what is, what is going to respond to based upon downstream, uh, neurons that are downstream, uh,
below it. They might, uh, fire within two, you know, I have two or more neurons that fire within,
uh, you know, a few milliseconds of each other, and, and the dendrite, uh, the spines of that dendrite
might, might, uh, have this memory that's like a long-term memory that will predict when it's going
to fire based upon a certain pattern beneath it. And so then it's going to spike and the accumulation
of many, uh, of these spikes in the, in the, in the, in the NDMA and the dendrite and the SOMA is,
is eventually going to lead to, uh, the action potential spiking out of the normal period of
its normal oscillation. So it'll, it, that, that's, it's, it's going to either, like, be more,
it'll be more excited, I guess, if it spikes sooner than, than it, than it should have,
because it's been, it's been influenced by this downstream information. So what I'm imagining,
so what I'm, I guess I'm asking is, is how does the, the dendrite, is my, is my description right
or wrong? And, and maybe, maybe you can add some definition to what I'm missing here. And then how is
it, like, basically the question is, how is the dendrite going to pass on the detection of, of
temporal information to the action potential and to the rest of the neuron? How does this, um,
to, to, to the rest of the, uh, sorry, the rest of the reference frame, how does a column
sort of affect the brain's oscillations? And, and do columns themselves kind of have their own
oscillations? And is there, um, you know, I guess, uh, a mathematical structure at the level of a
cortical column, does that involve wavelets? And maybe you could talk, talk to that. Thanks.
Yeah. Uh, you know, if you have a dendritic segment, um, what we see from the biology is as few as
eight or nine synapses that happen to co-occur within about five milliseconds can initiate an
NMDA spike. Um, so what's required is a coincidence of a very, very sparse pattern. So, you know,
some, this is eight or nine synapses out of a sea of thousands of, uh, neurons that are firing around
it. And so it's an extremely sparse patterns that, that is detected by the dendritic segment.
And this predisposes the neuron to fire a little bit stronger, a little bit faster than it would
otherwise. And so what's going on is that this dendritic segment is detecting some context and
this context is then, uh, predicting some, some future firing. And so a lot of the temporal,
there's sort of two answers to the temporal question. One is that these synapses have to
be co-active within a very short period of time. So it's detecting, uh, a pattern that's a very,
um, it's a population code. It's a, it's an instantaneous activation of a bunch of, uh, neurons,
uh, you know, around it. Um, the second, uh, piece of the dynamics is if that context is coming
from the same group of neurons that are receiving it. So in other words, it's recurrently connected.
So if you have a bunch, if you have a layer of cells, which is feeding onto itself, then
the context is really what that layer was representing a few milliseconds ago, or in the previous time
step. And that's one of the ways that the brain, we believe the brain learns sequences. So it's,
it's the, um, you know, the layer has some activity that predicts some future activity coming in,
which then predicts, again, will predict some future activities. So if you look at a sequence
like A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, at any point in time, you can then predict what the next letter is going
to be. And that's because the neurons that represent a particular layer have learned
connections to, um, neurons that were active for the previous letter that were active just previously.
And what we showed in the, in the 2016 paper is you can actually learn extremely complex sequences
this way, what's called non-Markovian sequences. So sequences where you have really, uh, a lot of
shared context. And, uh, a good example of this is sort of melodies to think about, um, you know,
uh, music, you know, different musical pieces will share notes in common and sometimes several notes
and sequence in common, but we can still distinguish one melody from another. And so it's not enough
just to look at a particular note or even the note that happened right before it. You have to
understand the full context of all of the notes that came before it in order to make good predictions.
And we showed that this mechanism can, um, can learn very complex sequences like that.
Um, in terms of kind of, I think you were asking about reference frames as well.
Um, the same mechanism can be used to store knowledge and reference frames. And the way that happens is you
have a location in a reference frame, think of it like a coordinate that's represented by a population
of neurons that then acts as a prediction for what sensory input you're going to get next. So if I'm
happened to be, um, you know, touching my coffee mug is that example Jeff uses all the time. You know,
if I'm moving my hand to the top of the coffee mug, the top of the coffee mug has a location
associated with it. That is that map through dendritic segments to specific what the sensation
I'm going to feel at that point in the coffee mug. So I can predict exactly the sensation I'm going to
feel. And then when I actually touch it, it's either confirmed or it's a prediction error,
in which case I learn. So the same exact mechanism is used, can be used to learn temporal sequences
or to store knowledge in, in reference frames and, and a bunch of other things as well. But those are
two, two examples. And going back to Wissam's question, this is one of the ways, one of the
reasons we think dendritic spikes and this sort of forming these contextual associations
through dendritic spikes is so critical in the, in the neocortex.
I just wanted to add like, uh, uh, uh, details from my lab work. Um, so I, I, I, I, I did, um,
I repeated those opposite things in the striatum and I, um, combined like, uh, different inputs, um,
uh, and compared them like sensory motor cortex inputs to, um, striatum projection cell, um,
like the spiny neurons combined with salamic inputs and all kinds of different inputs. And
I, they're actually, uh, found that no, not like sensory motor input with the amygdala,
which is like the fear center, but it's not really any more labels like that, but it has kind of
some of emotional labeling, uh, creates, um, with way fewer, uh, which is, um, I just had to, um, excite
five, uh, spots with, uh, with a tiny laser, um, like five, um, bouton, generate a, uh, way bigger upstate,
uh, from current, uh, from the, uh, from the timeline than like other combined inputs. So,
um, there are differences in, in brain regions and cell types and, um, and the intensity of the
abstain that it creates.
Take a brief moment. Everyone in the audience, every one of our speakers and are wonderful for
contributing to amazing. So grateful to be listening to you. And, oh, thanks JP. I see
you flashing talk too. Um, I do think there's some people we haven't heard from yet. Oh,
thank you, Myra on the stage. And I just want to make sure everyone gets a chance to speak or ask
a question. So, um, could you flash your mic at this to speak yet? And would like to speak from,
um, and Jeff, are you guys with us? I know Myra is. Have you heard from Mohi? The floor is yours.
And it makes it really nice. Give Jeff one last opportunity because I know he's been on the stage
for a long time and he hasn't had a chance to speak. Jeff, are you with us? Uh, are you able to speak?
Feel free to, um, unmute your mic. If not, we're going to go back to popcorn style and it looks like
JP, you want to say something and then Dex? Thank you. Um, amazing room as always. And I want to thank
everybody for their, for their great wisdom. Um, we some, uh, wow. Have you just blown my mind tonight,
sir, as well as you, Subutai? Um, uh, I'm trying to reconcile some things that I saw with regard to
a BCI and, uh, Subutai, uh, we some, I guess I really, uh, welcome yours or any of the brain trust
kind of, uh, thoughts around this. And, you know, when I, when I looked at kind of a, um, kind of nano
micro fiber that could read, um, kind of to your point, a, uh, or a sodium spike. And then,
you know, um, it looked like, you know, the, the, they were going to pull a dendritic so that they
could read it, damage it, Subutai. And, you know, uh, we some, to me, it seems like that might,
you know, and I know it's an invasive surgery, but, you know, would we be able to still get the
same type of reading out of something like that? And I guess, you know, this is something that I,
I recently saw it. It's just, it, part of me almost says maybe there's a different mechanism
versus pulling that dendritic nerve through that tube versus maybe saying, opening it up and
encapsulating it around it or something. Uh, I don't know. Wow. That sounds amazing. I, I,
I think that would be probably within Wiesem's wheelhouse to, uh, you know, maybe, maybe how
invasive it is. Uh, and full disclosure, you know, uh, you know, I, I can be very honest in
saying that I visited Neuralink facility. I saw a whole bunch of things that maybe I do and don't
understand. These are merely guesses at what I'm seeing, but when I looked at the thousand
plus fibers that they had, the three different sensor areas, you know, um, the four different
risk, you know, ASICs, um, it, it seemed intuitive on how it all worked, but the, the part of where
the robot was going to insert the chip and how they were going to place those nerves inside
these nano tubes, um, concern me. Familiar with the technique, but I'm getting the idea that you're,
they would be pulling, is this in vivo, like in a, in a living brain, they'd be pulling, uh,
a dendritic branch or, or something like that and to, to measure it in isolation or? That's
merely my speculation. Wiesem, I birthed a whole bunch of robots. I saw some beautiful
robots at Neuralink. I didn't see them in action. Um, that being said, I did get a look at the chip
and the BCI components and, you know, um, when I looked at the nano tube and fibers, that, that,
that was my assumption on how. Yeah, I mean, that sounds awesome. I would love to see data from
something like that. Um, but I mean, with any experiment, you're, there's, there's always the
question of how much you're perturbing the system. Um, I'll say a lot of what we know about
dendrites has come from in vitro work. Uh, I mean, that's changing. People are working on in,
in vivo, which is, you know, I'm among them. Um, but, uh, you know, you, you, you look at
the way a dendrite behaves in a, in a cortical slice, even if you, people have done crazy stuff like put,
you know, half a dozen electrodes into the same neuron, into the same branch and, and they're,
they're recording these really, uh, high resolution, uh, data in the tree.
But, but you've killed the animal, you've fixed the tissue, you've sliced it, you know? So there's
a lot going on that, that in the, in a living brain, that's a lot different than that. And so
there's, you know, there's a, when it comes to like really getting down to the nitty gritty and
getting the right answer to how things are happening in the brain, there's always this need to
check measurements that are invasive like that against what you can get from in vivo.
And I'll say, uh, you know, even that's hard, right? I, I use a lot of calcium imaging.
Calcium is a very potent signaling molecule, uh, signaling, uh, signal in all cells.
Uh, and it's super critical for plasticity. Uh, some people have cut up the plasticity space
into, you know, 20 plus types of plasticity mechanisms. And, and all the ones that people
talk about are coupled to calcium. So there's, you know, when you're, it's an interesting signal
to track, but if you were going to try to do, you know, say plasticity experiments at the same time,
you'd have to be super careful because a very sensitive calcium signal, uh, sensor is going
to be interfering with calcium. Uh, you know, all the pathways that calcium is involved with. So,
you know, it's, you just kind of, we're, we, we don't have perfect tools for this stuff, but we,
we kind of just get what we can and take slices of the problem at one at a time and try to integrate
across them. Uh, a measurement like that sounds super amazing. I mean, you're, you're, you have a dendrite
that's in, in a living, behaving animal. And at that last moment, you're kind of disrupting
the environment. So it would be very interesting to see that data. Two questions, uh, which relate to,
I suppose, one to another and follow actually from recent comments, which, um, for anyone who's
working on artificial intelligence or approaching a general intelligence of a sort, the human brain,
brains in general, have hundreds of millions of years in hand to have accumulated their priors.
And part of what is, uh, so impressive about the brain, both in terms of efficiency
and fittedness to its world is that it has encountered one type of world, uh, world of
Newtonian mechanics, broadly speaking from the level of perception. Uh, sorry, uh, was someone else
speaking? Uh, yeah. I suppose, uh, to, super tight to you and to anyone else who's engaged in this pursuit,
closing that gap between, uh, the, uh, brain's accumulated priors, um, which allow it to enter a
world and interact with other humans, you know, to, to be furnished in a sense where at least via
engagement with the world that can be pruned down to successively more precise engagements with other
conspecifics in a particular culture. That's a massive search space for any machine system to enter
and then, uh, uh, essentially arrive at those very, uh, slender, sparse connections which entrain, uh,
appropriate interactions with humans. And then, uh, I suppose, you know, the second part of that
question is that that implies in, uh, per, uh, Reeson's comment, uh, an embodied brain. So, uh, uh, a brain which is
involved in a perception action loop and, uh, essentially, uh, uh, economizes and, uh, maximizes
the efficiency of its processing relative to perception and action. So, is embodied in that
sense. So, two questions. How do you close the gap of the hundreds of millions of years of priors and,
and the, uh, you know, maybe, uh, four or five hundred, uh, so four or five million years of
hominid evolution down to an AGI that might be able to interact with humans? And then also,
to what extent do you think it's necessary to have an embodied agent to be able to, uh, uh, yeah,
close that gap or, um, yeah, create those efficiencies? Yeah. Um, I, I think, you know,
from, from our standpoint, you know, as Gearest, we can simplify a lot of stuff. We can look for
simplifying principles and yes, there's tremendous amounts of complexity, but, um, you know, if,
if you believe in the idea that the cortical column is, is embodying sort of the common cortical
algorithm in there, we have to, we can simplify it to understanding how a single cortical column
operates, you know, what are its functional properties? What are the learning rules? How is
it structured? Um, and then how multiple cortical columns kind of interact with one another.
And if, if, if we can figure those things out, the rest of it is, you know, remember the system
is a learning system. So the rest of it is, is primarily going to be a scaling issue and an issue
of feeding in the right amount of data and so on. We don't have to understand the full complexity
of every single synapse and every single, you know, aspect of the, uh, you know, what's going on.
Um, you know, at least that's the kind of approach we've taken is, is as computer scientists, you know,
simplify it down to some common properties, common algorithms, and then try to scale up from there.
And, and, and to your second point, it's very much an embodied system. Um, we think it's, uh,
uh, embodiment is absolutely critical. Um, every, every aspect of the, you know, every cortical
column in the neocortex, uh, gets sensory input, but also sends out motor commands. Um, if you look
at some of the neuroscience textbooks and so on, there's still this sort of old dogma that some
parts of the neocortex are motor areas and other parts of sensory areas. That's not true. It's well
established now that every single part of the neocortex has both sensory input and motor and
sends out motor outputs. It's truly a real, the common, the cortical column is a truly sensory
motor system, and it's very much embodied in, you know, whatever, uh, world that it, it's getting
inputs from and it's, it's interacting. So building embodied system is going to be.
Do you also subscribe to which I, real quick to the work of Paul Sysek, who kind of talks
about these active perceptive loops, um, as, as, as, you know, the, the, the study of them,
uh, to be a good way to kind of study the phylogenetic history of organisms. And,
you know, this whole notion that, that you can't really separate perception from control and vice versa
with them. But, uh, the, the general, uh, you know, notions of what, what you just mentioned,
uh, are very consistent with. I have a couple. Okay. A couple of questions for, uh, for super time.
Um, so there's 20 years of studies on decorticized, decorticized rats. Um, I'm sure you're well aware
of this. Uh, so there's a, there's a new book that came out where the guy's arguing that consciousness
is not in the neocortex, it's just in the old brain. And, um, I think it's probably both, but,
but he's saying that in these rats, like if you decort, if you take away their, their cortex, um,
that, uh, they still behave like the other rats do. The differences are pretty minor. Um, so do you think,
I guess, do you think consciousness is also an old brain besides being in the cortex for human beings?
Second, uh, is, uh, this is what is voting, uh, more specifically, how do, how do you, what's,
what's the prediction for how cortical columns are interacting to vote? And, um, and, and the third
is what is the structure of a cortical column in terms of what it contains? Uh, does it contain the
micro columns? Does it contain micro neural circuit clusters? And will these micro neural circuit
clusters, uh, uh, potentially represent separate oscillatory patterns? And I wonder how they
interface. The short question, uh, when was this done? Would camera-
I would have similar questions. Um, you know, that, that maybe some behaviors don't change,
but, you know, it's going to be, you're going to see a lot of deficits, particularly in learning new,
new complex behaviors, recognizing objects, um, and so on. So, uh, you know, I would have more
questions, uh, than anything about, uh, the comment you made about the corticized rats,
especially in social behavior. The things that you mentioned earlier,
see what I was, uh, if you had maybe seven to eight, um, um, dendrites that you could, uh,
maybe I'm mischaracterizing it, um, that you could get maybe some neuroplasticity in terms of the
types of transmission signal. Um, you know, uh, I'm trying to keep, you know, reconciling what I saw
to what, what, what we're talking about. And if I saw, you know, like 250, you know, of some of these
microfibers or nanofibers going in, which would say be, you know, interacting with the brain,
um, it was able to read and say send signals. Would you say that, uh, you know, across maybe
a thousand of those nanofibers that that might be sufficient to gain enough information to start
reading, um, a specific area. And to your point with neuroplasticity, uh, you know, my, my thoughts
were that you would have to go to different areas of the brain, kind of thinking back to
the old kind of, um, uh, modalities that, that were mentioned here, but with the things that you've
mentioned, I could see that the chip that I was looking at might not be needing any further,
you know, advancement in terms of having it go to any other areas. Um, do you think that localized
anywhere in the brain would give you the same types of, um, connectivity and read, write
capabilities, I guess is what I'm thinking. And then to the point of cortical columns, um,
you know, uh, how many fibers would it take to kind of, uh, substantiate, you know, across,
uh, uh, say one, two, or X number of cortical columns? Um, so, you know, the, the, to a large
extent, the principles of cortical columns and, uh, the, the, the neurons, uh, that are in cortical
columns are independent of the sensory region or the, the, the area of the neocortex that,
that you're in. And so every cortical column sort of follows the same principles. Um, now,
clearly different cortical columns get different inputs. So you won't be able to look at just one
cortical column and be able to understand what the whole brain is doing. If that is your question,
uh, you'll be able to, uh, understand what that particular cortical column is seeing and what it is
modeling. Uh, and in terms of how much you need, um, each cortical column in humans, I mean,
it varies a lot, uh, between, uh, you know, region and species and so on, but roughly speaking,
somewhere around 50,000 to a hundred thousand neurons are in each cortical column. And so, um,
I doubt that just looking at a thousand dendrites is going to be enough. Uh, I think you're going to
need to look at, uh, quite a bit more than that. You went, you went down there, but to be able to
reach. So that means you need for 90% of your synapses, you need some sort of active dendritic
process. If you're going to integrate information between the somatic voltage compartment and, and
dendrites. So I just kind of emphasis on the, on the importance of this topic, but in terms of what
you were saying about, uh, you know, uh, the devices, these BCIs and, and at what resolution
they would, uh, record and when, when would it be useful? I would say what I don't believe is that
we need to simulate every dendrite to understand the brain. I'm just saying there's stuff we don't
know. And we, this is a very, this is one of the places we should be looking. And we're going to learn
about computations that, you know, later on we'll figure out how to abstract properly. Um, and at the
level of these, uh, you know, what, what can you be done with these BCIs? I would say a resolution
interlaminar resolution could be very interesting. So instead of trying to pick off dendrites and this,
in this big web of dendrites, uh, something like looking at what's going on in the very upper layers,
layer one and the cortex versus what's happening in the very deeper layers, there's a lot of evidence
that top down information is converging onto the layer one and, uh, the bottom up information,
uh, it's coming into layer four and it's activating the upper layers and the bottom layers.
And so there's this, uh, you know, spatial segregation of top down and bottom up information
that I think is very interesting in terms of, you know, the biophysical mechanisms for plasticity
that are happening within these cells and within the column. So I think if, if these devices are
sensitive enough to be able to, uh, you know, read out and, uh, be, be more sophisticated in the,
the way they're stimulating things between layers within a column, I think that's,
that's kind of the place to start, I think. I would totally agree.
Totally agree.
The more distal, the more distal the input is, the more impact it will have on the excitability of the
cell. Like this was shown, uh, I think Plotkin and all that, um, the more distal the input is,
just because of conductivity, um, it will have a higher impact. Um, so you, you have like maps
within the dendroids and then within the layers, um, of like, there's some kind of higher...
I was about to say, uh, with Tonya, that starts to look a lot like the predictive processing
and the hierarchical predictive processing that you were talking about there. Yeah.
Maybe I could, I could respond to, uh, so Katerina and Subutai, uh, replied to my question before,
and I, I do have a follow-up there. So the role, there's a paper from 1992 called the role of the
cortex in play fighting by rats, uh, development and evolutionary implications. And, um, so that
talks about basically young, young mammals, young, young rats, and, uh, they were, their, their cortex
was removed. And the, the difference was they, they basically had most of the same responses,
um, as the rats who had a cortex, um, but they, uh, but they stopped, they, they were less playful
with defense. And the idea was that the, the rats would, um, without cortex, um, might be a lot less,
uh, uh, they might play a lot less and thus develop a lot less, a lot, much, much fewer, uh, skills,
but, um, but they still have a lot of normal behaviors. And I, I, by the way, I, I linked both
Katerina and Subutai on Twitter to those papers, and if anyone else wants to look at the
two most recent, like, posts that I made.
Yeah, it's just happening in development, yeah, that, that there's a lot of compensation
in the mammalian brain that can go on. I mean, there was, for example, a kid that was found out
later, he never had, uh, cerebellum, um, and he was, um, like, fine, which is an older, like, um,
brain region where, like, for example, automatization, like riding a bike and so on.
But, um, there's a lot of compensation going on during development. That's true.
Uh, that's why I said, Micah, that the removal of the, uh, cortex would have, you would expect,
uh, implications specifically on social behaviors. And it makes sense with play since play at a young age
is about, uh, you know, developing, uh, bonds and also, uh, ordinating the social hierarchy where you,
you know, it's explicitly social. Of course, other things are passed on in play, but what you
described would make, uh, exact sense. And, um, also speak to the notion expressed by many people here
that you, you wouldn't expect no effects from removing your cortex. You'd expect all sorts of
effects and, uh, explicitly, uh, social effects.
I definitely wanted to bring up, uh, reawaken a question, uh, that was asked earlier. Um,
what, what, what is, uh, what's voting in terms of, um, how cortical columns interact or
subtype perhaps? What do you predict that that is?
Yeah. So, um, voting, um, so in, in the, the work that we published, uh, when we say voting,
um, you know, each cortical column is modeling its world. It's, it's building,
it's understanding the structure of its world and building a sensory motor model of its
world. And then multiple cortical columns are getting, each of them are getting different
inputs. It could be from different portions of the same sensory modality, for example,
one finger to another finger, or, you know, it could be different sensory modalities completely
like auditory versus somatosensory versus visual. And so each cortical column is trying to make
inferences of what it's seeing in its world. And then the voting process, um, allows different
cortical columns to share, uh, their inferences and quickly arrive at a consistent and an inference
that's consistent with all of the available evidence. And so, um, you know, if, if I'm,
you know, touch the simple example is if I'm, you know, stick my hand in my pocket, uh, maybe one
finger is, is feeling, you know, something, but it, you know, one finger by itself can't tell,
uh, what I'm sensing. It might be something cold and hard, but if I'm, if I look, by getting the
information from all of my fingers, I know, oh, it's my keys or, oh, it's my cell phone that I'm
touching. And even though any given, uh, finger is, is sensing something that's ambiguous through the
voting process, we can quickly arrive at an, um, at a consistent interpretation. And the, what's going
on there? So we published one very detailed model of how voting can occur, um, back in, I think 2017.
And that, that paper should be available on the numenta.com website. But basically what's, uh,
the information, you know, what's going on there is that each cortical column will transmit the set
of hypotheses that are consistent with its interpretation so far in the form of these
sparse representations. These connections are associative connections on active dendritic
segments again. Um, and through a competition process, you basically quickly narrow down to the
hypotheses that are consistent with the evidence across different cortical columns. And there's
inhibition involved in, uh, dendritic, uh, computation involved. All of the, the elements that we've
talked, you know, talked about before are involved in this process. Um, so, but hopefully that gives
you a sense at a high level, at least what's, uh, what the voting process is accomplishing.
Yes. Uh, follow up, direct follow up. Um, would a neural imager be able to tell that voting has
happened and, and would a neural link device be able to, uh, decode neural, neural columns and, uh, yeah.
Yes. Um, this is a great question and you would have to run, right, run your experiments in a particular
way. It has to be, uh, in the context of, uh, cortical columns that are exploring or, you know,
trying to do that at the task, first of all. Um, and it, you would have to be imaging multiple
cortical columns simultaneously and imaging the layers that are involved in voting. In that paper,
we speculated it's in the, in, in layer two, three, because those layers have very long
range lateral connections, which are, we think is where the voting information is transmitted.
So you could look at, you could look at the, uh, you know, neurons in that layer across different
cortical columns. Um, and if you could construct your experiment correctly, you would feed in
ambiguous information. Um, at first to specific cortical columns, you should see,
you know, a certain amount of represent, you know, certain representation. And then as you get more
and more information, the representation should get sparser and until it locks in on the representation
that is consistent with the particular object that is being sent. So the, the concept is being sent.
Permit me to ask where, which journal it's published in?
Um, it's one of the frontiers journals, um, which is an open access journal. Um,
you know, I don't have my laptop with me right now. Um, but it's, uh, 2017. If you go to
numenta.com slash papers, all of our papers are, are listed there.
Okay. And may I ask why you didn't submit it to a peer reviewed, uh, process? It was just easier
and quicker. It is a, it is a peer review journal. Okay. Sorry about that. Yeah. Yeah.
I wanted to jump in here real quick. And I have a question for, uh, Subutai. I was wondering if you
have, uh, heard of or are familiar with, um, the paper in, uh, the frontiers and systems
neuroscience journal. It's titled brain computation is organized via power of two-based
permutation logic. Um, I think what the, the final author on that is, uh, is Joe Tsien. Um,
and it basically talks about how there are, uh, cortical and, uh, subcortical, uh, uh, pathways
that are organized in this, uh, power of two, uh, permutation, uh, where it's kind of like organized
in a way where, uh, things go from, uh, specific to general and it's, it's kind of structured in a way
that allows, um, this kind of like, like, like fractal hierarchical representation of, uh, certain
information, uh, representations. And, uh, the article also goes into how, uh, some other systems,
uh, such as the dopamine, uh, uh, neurons, uh, don't share this, uh, power of two, uh, permutation.
I was wondering if you were, uh, familiar, uh, with this paper and, uh, the power of two permutation,
um, architecture. Um, no, I'm not. It sounds intriguing. Um, maybe someone else here is familiar
with that and can, and can speak to that, but I, I'm personally not familiar with it. I'll,
I'll look it up. Yeah. So I, I, I found that paper to be very valuable, um, in, uh, understanding
some of the, uh, the, uh, the architecture of, um, of, of, of the brain. Hang on. Let me just
sorry to interrupt Michael to be, if you could please silence your mic while other people are
speaking, it would be most respectful and I would appreciate it. Yeah. Yeah. Subutai. Um, I'll, I'll,
I would, I just want to double down on plugging that article for you. I think, um, I think it's kind
of like right up the alley of, you know, like the cortical column and, uh, it, it kind of like,
you know, like traces, you know, the, the architecture, you know, from the cortical to
the subcortical and kind of like abstracts how there's kind of like a, uh, a, a shared, uh,
structure in the, um, information, uh, sequencing. Um, I'm struggling to come up with the right
vocabulary to describe this, the paper would do a way better job. But, um, yeah, if you have,
if you can pull like, uh, like some notes on your phone, I really encourage writing down this
article. It's open access. Um, it's titled brain computation is organized via power of two based
permutation logic. Uh, I think it's a groundbreaking paper and, uh, and I think it would be a very
valuable paper to have, uh, in the repertoire. That's great. Thank you. What is it specific
about powers of two? Did they talk about it? Um, um, power of two permutation. It's, it's kind of
like, I mean, it's something we're very used to in computationally, but I'm, I'm puzzled why that
would have any biological significance. Yeah. Yeah. It's like N equals, uh, two to the I minus one.
Um, and it kind of like, uh, it, it, it abstracts that this, uh, you know, power of two permutation,
uh, applies to neuronal representation. Um, and it's, it's something that I have difficulty,
you know, uh, articulating, um, uh, you know, it's something to do with, you know, how things go
from specific to general, uh, assembly. And there's like an architecture, um, that kind of like
can abstract, you know, things from, from specific to, to general. And there's kind of like a hierarchical
structure, you know, where, um, you know, you start with, you know, things that are more,
more local. If I could give kind of like an abstract analogy, you know, let's, let's just
use like a semantic concept, such as, um, you have, uh, like a cat and then upwards from cat,
you have, uh, like, like, um, animal and upwards from animal, you have, uh, you know, uh, like
something that moves, you know, and then upward from that, you have, you know, you did the way
you discern these things from, uh, like, like, like inanimate objects. Uh, so there's kind
of like, you start very specific, you know, which is cat and maybe even more specific than
that, you know, like you have like sphinx cat or, uh, or Maine Coon cat. And, you know,
this is like, so this is what we would call very specific. And, you know, the more you abstract
outward, you know, you, you, you could go up upon the levels of abstraction. Um, you have
something more general, you have something like animal and then more general from that, you have
something, uh, like, like, uh, something that like an inanimate object. And, and that, that
was, that, that's what would be specific. And you have like, basically in, in how knowledge
is represented, um, most, most of the semantic maps in the brain, uh, follow this kind of
architecture, um, where the way that the brain represents these semantic, uh, concepts
neurologically, uh, uh, follows this, uh, uh, specific to general architecture. And you
can abstract this to most of the, uh, models, the information models that, uh, the brain
makes. And I think this, this example that I brought up, uh, uh, uh, might not be the
most illustrious, uh, example, but I think the paper, uh, does a fantastic job of, uh, articulating,
uh, this, this concept, this like, uh, power of two permutation. And I think it's, uh, uh, when,
when I first read it, like, uh, my mind was blown. So I, I just really can't, uh, overstate
how valuable I thought this paper to be. Cool. Thank you for that. Thanks.
Thank you so much, Francis. Always good to hear from you. And we can't thank you enough,
Zubatai, for the many questions that you've answered and your generosity of time. And, um,
there are some speakers who have not had a chance to either ask a question or make a contribution.
At this time, I'm going to ask you to flash your mics so I can see if you would like to add
a comment or a question, um, from people we have not heard from on the stage. Maximilian,
Roger, Beth, uh, Shika, you want to flash your mics? I see Roger flashes mic. Roger,
the floor is yours. Hi, uh, first, uh, I just want to congratulate Zubatai and Jeff on, on your work.
It's just, it's just brilliant. And, uh, it takes a lot of guts to go right at the brain and say,
we're going to figure out as best we can how it actually works. So it's fantastic. So keep up the
good work there. Um, for artificial intelligence, for trying to, to, to make artificial intelligence
based on the principles you're discovering, I think, Zubatai, you already pointed out that it's,
you know, extraordinarily complex and there's so much complex complexity that you, you want to abstract
out some, uh, some elements and see if they can work for AI. And I, I'd consider that a sort of a
top down approach, which I think is really worth doing. And again, I think you should just keep doing
what you're doing. Uh, you're going to get really far with that, but, uh, for someone who doesn't have a
background either in the, or in the neuroscience, but as a computer scientist, this is not me, by the way,
um, but for computer scientists who want to apply some of your principles, I was wondering if you
think it would be possible to take the opposite approach, a bottom up approach. So if you think
about the perceptron, which was developed in the 1950s, it's extraordinarily simplistic idea of what
neurons do. And yet it's produced these astonishingly kind of surprisingly powerful results when it's
scaled up and people kind of cleverly link these units together. So my question is,
can you suggest the next more complicated unit, something that would incorporate some element of
what you've discovered, um, that could create the replacement for the perceptron that people who
are basically just computer scientists could program in a practical way and use to experiment with and
see what kind of intelligence they could get out of it. So for example, uh, the idea that, that the brain
is a predictive engine, we could make a prediction unit, an expectron, so to speak, uh, some, could you
figure out a way to make some, or suggest a way to make something that, uh, takes this act of
prediction that, that, uh, even single neurons seem to be doing, uh, make a computational model of it
and just let people run with it. Or another idea would be taking the idea of the action perception,
uh, loop that was talked about earlier, so on. So I'm just curious what you have to say about that.
Yeah. First of all, thank you for your kind comments before. Um, you know, we, we talked about this a
little bit earlier, but, um, incorporating dendritic processing into a neuron model, I think is going to
be a very natural next step. Um, you know, there are these active properties of dendrites and we
think that's one of the basic ways that neurons form predictions. Um, and that's, there's a lot of
work in the literature that, uh, shows how these quote unquote predictions can then lead to learning,
uh, from, from predictions and from prediction mistakes. So I think that stuff can be abstracted
into very simple computational models. We're kind of, we're working on that. We published a paper,
um, detailing a little bit of that back in 2016, but we're actually working on incorporating that into
deep learning today. Uh, so, um, you know, I think that would be kind of the next logical step up from,
uh, a simple perceptron is to really include more contextual processing through these, uh, dendrites.
Thank you. Yep. Um, I, I would, uh, definitely chime in on that and I totally agree with what you're
saying. Um, what, one thing like in terms of where to start wrapping your head around it, I think, um,
Bartlett Mal's work is pretty interesting. He was, I think the first to formalize the dendritic tree as a
two layer neural network, uh, just to kind of give you an idea of how the computational power could expand.
And I'll just add one little anecdote or not, uh, uh, one more point, uh, that might add to,
you know, motivating, uh, people, more people working on this. Uh, there's a paper by pay leave
and lab here at Harvard. Uh, they just, uh, published it and they, they talked about, they tried to do,
um, like a, a very robust gardener style capacity measurement, uh, in closed form for dendritic
trees. And, uh, you know, the, the two, three sentence summary of, of what they came to is given
active dendritic processing you, uh, and, and, you know, in order to do it analytically, they,
they had to, uh, take things at the limit. So at the limit of infinite branches in a dendritic tree,
given active processing, that they found the, uh, the, uh, capacity, in other words, uh, the number
of memory patterns that the way it was been analyzed for perceptrons, uh, actually grows
unboundedly. And so as you scale up the size of the arbor, you get more and more and more memory
capacity for, uh, you know, storing patterns and whatnot, um, uh, as a theoretical perspective.
Thank you with some, you, your contribution, uh, to this room has been incredible. I really
thank you. Um, may I see from, if you can flash your mics, if you have not had a chance to speak
and you'd like to make a comment or ask a question, you can flash your mics. Otherwise we're going to go
in PTR. Um, because we do have some new speakers, um, Beth, Shika, and Mark. Would you like to unmute
your mics and make a contribution? I just got here. I'm going to wait a little longer. Fair enough.
I just want to reset the room. We are in the future brain club. Uh, I am the host and the founder.
It's named after my blog on psychology today, the future brain at the intersect of artificial
intelligence and neuroscience. And the theme of this room tonight has been, or this afternoon
that has gone into tonight, if you're, uh, um, uh, California, um, synthetic intelligence,
intelligence, AKA AI versus human biological brain. And we have span a multiple of both hard
science and humanities and exploring this topic. There are no wrong answers here. Um, this is an
inclusive discussion where we make respectful conversation and, uh, meaningful discourse.
And I really want to thank everyone who's here. We will be winding down at 8 15. Um, if you enjoyed
this conversation, if you enjoyed the incredible collective brain power in this room, which I find
amazing, um, please feel free to follow the future brain and the sister club orthogonal fractal.
So we often have spontaneous rooms like this, and you'll be notified of that. And with that, I'd like to give
another call for speakers before I turn off hand raising. Micah, the floor, Micah and Dexter, the floor is yours.
Awesome. Um, so I, I definitely wanted to ask if, um, if, I don't know if, if Ramsey was just speaking or, um, or if that was, uh, uh, we sound, but, uh, if you could, uh, post a link on your Twitter to the, uh, the, the two layer dendritic tree and also to a link to the, there's a story you're talking about, the Pavilion lab at, at Harvard, uh,
uh, that was giving active dendritic processing into infinite branches. I, I just like to look up those papers if you could post on, on your Twitter or something.
Yeah, I, I don't have a Twitter linked up right now, but I, I have my, um, Instagram if, if you can reach out on Instagram and, and I can slide you some, some links.
Thank you.
A great wrap up question, but, uh, hopefully, hopefully that's one after mine. But I'm curious from the earliest days of learning about the brain, uh, one of the, the first ways that we ever began to learn about brain anatomy and function and, and the pairing of areas was through, um, uh, injury and visioning and that sort of thing.
Um, but I am curious to what extent your research, um, grasps, uh, what can be learned from, uh, neurodiversity, uh, from autism, uh, pathologies like schizophrenia, uh, Parkinson's, uh, I was thinking about frontal lobe dementia, uh, frontal lobe dementia, um, especially with relation to, uh, slender, uh, uh, neural, uh, connections
like von Economo, uh, von Economo neurons, those kinds of things. And yet just the general question of how much, uh, do you learn about the abstracting of, uh, what the brain does from when it, uh, you know, hits particular failure modes? Is that informative in the world?
That's a good question. Um, we have not spent too much time on that literature. I know, uh, Jeff definitely is starting to think about that a little bit more to see if there's, uh, the things we can learn, but, um, you know,
I tend to be much more at a mechanistic level, um, the level of individual neurons and circuits. Um, but I think some of that work is starting to get really interesting and I'm not definitely not an expert and maybe someone else here is, but, uh, I think down the road, I think we will be able to learn, uh, quite a bit about it.
Um, and disorders, uh, so, yeah, when neuroscience started, we learned from the disease state, um, quite a lot, and, and when brain regions were reached for different region, reasons, or from lobotomies and so on.
So we gained a lot of, a lot of insights that computational wise, I don't know.
If I may, I have a question, um, do you know, the, um, the seven, the 11 dimensions, uh, structures that was, um, part of the blue brain project and, you know, they basically found like clicks of, um, of cells that, that go up to 11 dimensions.
And, um, how, what do you think if, um, if that is still part of, you know, the theory you guys use and, um, how accurate or what do you think of this 11 dimensions, um, theory?
Um, that's a really interesting question.
I, I have not, I'm not too familiar with it.
That's another paper I'll have to, to look into.
Um, so, uh, thank you for that pointer.
There, you know, the general idea of having cliques of neurons that are working together is very consistent with, you know, sparsity and population codes and the way active dendrites work and everything we've been talking about.
So the fact that there are cliques of neurons working together is definitely, uh, consistent if, if I understood that correctly.
Um, we've, dimensionality is, um, you know, we know that it's a lot of our theories based on reference frames.
And creating a map of environments and objects and so on, uh, grid cells and place cells seem to be, uh, you know, primarily two-dimensional.
I think people have looked, experimentalists have looked for three-dimensional grid cells.
And I think there's, they're starting to look at bats and three-dimensional animals.
And they're starting to see some interesting, uh, structure, you know, beyond that, it's, it's, uh, I don't know what the experimental literature is.
I think mathematically, um, you know, we, we, we've shown that you can take even one-dimensional grid cell modules, um, and use a bunch of those one-dimensional modules.
And through random projections, you can actually model much higher dimensional spaces.
Um, so it's, but, you know, as obviously, you know, 11-dimensional spaces would be extremely difficult to, to model as, as you might imagine.
So, uh, you know, uh, you know, I would love to find out more about that paper and, and look at it and see exactly what they found.
That sounds pretty interesting.
Yeah, it's in Switzerland, it was done in Switzerland, and it was funded by the European community.
It's a blue, blue brain project.
It's really intriguing.
Yeah.
Okay, I'll, I'll try to find it.
Henry, Henry, Henry Markin is there.
But, uh, yeah, if you just look for 11-dimensional and blue brain, you'll find, uh, the paper.
Great, thank you.
Thank you so much.
We are minutes away from closing down this room.
Sorry, but I do do after parties, so if you follow the future brain or, or the, um, sister club, notify that there is an after party.
We often do spontaneous rooms such as this.
I do want to do a last call for the speakers on stage.
If you have not had a chance to ask a question or make a statement, could you please flash your mic now before I do a final one?
The floor is yours.
The floor is yours.
So, I know the computer how to, uh, running.
So, the, theoretically, we can build, nowadays, and start good tools, uh, to, to create the tool.
to any kind of organism was kind of random but with crisper you can be way more precise
so for research it's an incredible tool and ongoing the precision is still ongoing
so crisper itself is just a tool to be very precise with where you want to edit the genome
i would agree with that and nuclear weapons are also tools i think we're of course everything is
um i i guess i have some some questions for subitai um is is it do you have any predictions for the
basis of the information structure and data structure in a reference frame um and does it
extend to multiple reference frames like if we're talking um go ahead the data structures for reference
frames um we think we we don't have the full answer but we think it's going to look a lot like grid
cells um and the way that grid cells operate um and um you know it's i know we're running a long time
this is a yet another huge topic so um but and you know we have we've published extensively on that but
we've and other people have as well um that that if with grid cells and particularly multiple grid
cell modules you can actually form very very rich representations of space in in multiple dimensions
in ways that uh allow you to sort of predict where you're going to be based on movements and allow
has this sort of property called path integration where if you uh you can always um you know if you're
shortest path back or if you're back to a location where you were before it's going to be a very
consistent representation to what you had before so these are some of the properties that you need
uh from a reference frame in addition to some of the storage stuff that i discussed uh earlier so
we think that data structures are going to be a lot like grid cells do you think that um is there
do you know can you predict what the brains equivalent of a bit of information would be at the
would it be at the neural uh level and is it binary a bit of information so you know everything's going
to be represented as sparse representations and no single synapse and no single neuron is going to be
critical uh the brain is in very very redundant so unlike computer codes like ascii and things like
that we are we have an extremely robust representation then you can actually quite often remove thirty
percent or forty percent of a given set of synapses or given set of neurons and things operate just
fine so it's never it's going to be hard to isolate it to a single anything it's going to be sort of
populations and groups of neurons and groups of synapses that are sort of active together uh that's
that's how we believe essentially that information is represented in the end of brain
in the neocortex will a concept or an idea or an image have like a sort of metric structure that we're
allowed to be passed uh around the brain will it will do concepts do you think travel across the brain
well in the thousand brains theory everything is uh represented using reference frames so even
conceptual uh you know you know concepts and uh high-level abstract uh constructs such as
mathematics and philosophy and so they're all based on on reference frames um it's not clear
whether the reference frames themselves are passed around because each cortical column
uses reference frames to understand the structure of its world but the inputs that a given cortical
column is is is getting is very different from what another cortical column is getting and each one
is going to have its own set of reference frames what might be important to pass around is sort of the
relative positioning of things rather than the actual reference frames itself um so knowing that you
in the example i gave earlier if i stick my hands in my pocket and i feel some cold a hard metal knowing
that where my the relative locations of my fingers might be very critical in determining am i grabbing
my keys or am i grabbing my cell phone or am i grabbing my pen um and so those that kind of information
might need to be transmitted but we don't right now we don't think the reference frames themselves need
to be transmitted if i understood the network go ahead sorry no i don't want to cut you off if i
understood the network protocols of of my of micro cortical columns or cortical columns i'm sorry
uh in terms of how they communicated with one another uh would i with a as a neural imager would i be able
to use something like a neural link device to um to put in an http request for an image uh at one part of
the brain and receive it from another part of the brain do you think information can travel like that
yeah absolutely and i you know i don't think you need neural link for that you can you can you know
definitely invoke representations uh i think you know effort there are fmri studies that that show that
um you know you can think about you can uh uh you know show subjects some stimulus and invoke lots
of different representations and there are predictive representations that happen um you know all over
the brain so i think that's that's probably pretty well documented but but i mean oh go ahead keep
going um so what i mean is like if i if i was if i was able to talk to the audio cortex could i um if i
knew the information protocols do you think i could like like dial in like you know an http address and
call an image from the visual cortex back through the audio cortex to my uh sensor um well except for the
http part i think that's already been shown uh maybe someone else knows this already but i believe
if you for example hear the sound of a cat you can invoke in v1 and and and in different parts of the
visual cortex represent you know neurons will fire that represent um a visual image of a cat and so i
think that that's that stuff is documented already i just had a couple of questions that that uh you know
kind of build on top of what you've been talking about with with micah but the the first one is with
uh you know these reference frames i i know you know i know we don't really understand how grid cells work
and clear and obviously we don't understand how reference frames work in the cortex if if that's
what's happening but um i'm thinking about you know i work in the auditory cortex and i'm i think about
a lot of these pathways from hippocampus up through you know the temporal lobe uh you know entorhinal cortex
and then perirhinal cortex and there's some interesting papers showing um that the you know perirhinal
cortex is doing some sort of gating and layer one of of sensory parts of the cortex um so just you know
that's where my head is and i'm wondering where if you're thinking about the way these reference frames
are built as a as a local process is the cortex co-opting something uh you know that's older
evolutionarily and and modified that and it's doing it on its own locally or do you feel like these inputs
from uh areas that are driven by um if you will for lack of better words i think you guys know who
i'm talking about it's usually patrols cammy well i'm glad that we're all here now and that we can
enjoy this together but i'm sorry this is happening to you did you lose uh ownership of the club somebody
on stage very interesting because i saw another cammy in the room with the moderator pictures and
everything you know what i think it's um wasn't speaking no turing tests though digital talk about
digital twins the ip has a flash in it that's because the tcp and the ip are on two different
layers i think it's called the session the transport layer and then up top you've got ideas you've got
people working on network cards people working on operating systems and people working on protocols
and people working on applications and so i look at bitcoin as sort of another layer well i will tell
you moderators and future moderators be careful who you ask on stage i try to be so inclusive
but apparently you know just i don't know what to say on the stage you had um not so good intentions
let's just say is uh just uh assign moderator to people to be inclusive of your very people but
not to have that green bean none of us actually work for that green bean just uh assign it only for people
different times um i like to give people breaks and um i also believe that sometimes people make
mistakes but that's kind of a hard mistake to make so yeah i think even in i think pretham's right
and i think even in the big rooms i think six to nine moderators is plenty to give even if it's
long lasting to give uh a share to the moderating job and to to move around but if you if you give it
to everyone who's up on stage there's just too much um confusion and opportunity for somebody to even
accidentally make somebody or some moderator or close the room or something like that i think i always make
somebody at least one other person because the other thing that can happen is if your network
connection drops out and you're the only mod you can you can actually lose the room and to me it is uh
i found that out in like a little private what just happened it took us a minute to figure it out
so if you're the only mod in the room ends then uh and someone calls you like the whole room ends for
everyone you mean like a phone call seriously uh yeah it did yeah hey cammy hey thanks for joining
the after party you guys really made the room i really enjoyed what you had to say and i'm super
grateful for everyone actually in this room it just just really made my afternoon thank you i always
love your rooms i've never had such interesting topics it's like every time cammy has a room i'm like
orthogonal practice what are those you are too kind thank you so much right seriously
oh look myra muted yes go ahead and tell us i want to say something i'm looking at the
picture here that that's really cool picture by the way cammy if i could uh my rose and uh taking
the little um r and r i would say a clubhouse break but she's like clubhouse she's uh she went on a
little uh vacation i wanted to say out of town to relax so she i just wanted to say thank you very much for
the uh for the session earlier um cammy that was a wonderful talk today i was i was uh about heading
uh to uh to dinner myself and so i was just i just want to say thanks again very much
and happy to join another time wonderful glad to do it good night everybody
