=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0307y Synaptic Unreliability Neocortex Machines Brain
First recorded: 2021-04-21T23:57:09.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/05cf4314-2e18-4485-85da-b89010eff174
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Mm-hmm. Resume. Pause and resume another time. Okay, that's fine. So what do you think so far about... Right, right, right. So I guess you're right. Those are two very different things.
So the main body of the book is in neuroscience and writing about different research that has been done and linking together ideas that people are perhaps not yet linking together in a public way.
They might be linking them together privately. But I want to show basically a science-based, neurology-based map of existing research, but combining together some novel ideas in order to say that basically the research that we need to say what human consciousness is,
to have basically our thought workspace that renders our environment to us, that renders us within our brains, that basically creates a representation of you within you and your environment within you and your mind and so on.
And I want to say that that research has, you know, we're at a place where we can begin to talk about that in extreme detail and begin to plan out machines, artificial machines that can replicate that process with great detail.
And then the second part, which really is about exploring basically what's going really wrong with deep learning in terms of where it's not coming close yet to what needs to be done.
And then exploring the kinds of things that we would need to see in machine learning in order to basically be for a computer to have the kinds of capability that our brains have.
And so that is like, in a sense, the second book is like taking the lessons from neuroscience and then applying them to computation, to computer science.
To say, okay, well, here's what we're, here's what's happening in the brain and here's what's happening in deep learning and here's what's happening in, you know, all these other kinds of machine learning programs.
And here's, here's what we could do that would sort of change, change things.
Like the, like the, the, so you're right, these are two different stories, but it's like saying, okay, well, how can I, how can I understand the, the computational aspect of, of, of, of cognitive neurology, cognitive psychology, cognitive, cognition, right?
The computational aspect of it.
And then how can I replicate it mechanically?
So I, I'm, I'm in those two, so this is in the style of like a book, like, uh, like on intelligence by Jeff Hawkins, for example, where he basically did something similar, where he was talking about, um, uh, how his, his idea of what the neocortex was doing about the mechanical process of what it was doing.
And then he was, he was trying to design, uh, he was trying to say, okay, well, we can make a machine, a machine that follows these steps that does what the neocortex is doing artificially.
And, um, I, I'm, I'm, so that is a certain, that's like a book style, I think, to, to where I'm going to be talking about what the brain does.
Um, but like the whole brain, not just the neocortex, so the neocortex included, but basically the neocortex is, is the most, um, it's, it's, it's the top two thirds of, of the, of the brain.
It's, um, it's the biggest part of the human brain.
Um, but it is like, um, but my, the, the theory that I have is, is about explaining the whole brain, right?
It's, so I, that's what I'm aiming to do is to explain the entire human brain and also to talk about, um, creating a mechanical simulation of the entire human brain so that we can have basically artificial sentient, um, machines that, that, um, that could, that could be like human beings.
And it's, it's, so it's a, it's a vast departure.
So down to like, even, even to the, you know, in deep learning, they have this, um, thing it's called the perceptron, which is the, the, the, the concept of the artificial neural network, which was, I think, discovered in like, I think mapped out in like 1957 based upon a misconception of the, of, um, of, of basically of how neurons, uh, work.
And, um, and the big misconception continues to this day because there's still like this sort of like assumption that, um, that you can even like, if you take a class in, you know, computational neuroscience, one-on-one, one of the first things they tell you is, okay, we're going to just basically sum up the, the action potential of a neuron as a one or a zero.
So, and, uh, and, uh, and, in deep learning, they go beyond that.
It's, it's a one or a zero plus like, um, it's like, um, you get a vector, which can, can be like the, the amplitude above, between zero and one.
So it, so it's either on or off, plus there's a, a vector, which indicates that, uh, the, the amplitude could be greater or less, uh, or less, um, than zero by, up, if it is high as one.
And so there's some variability in like the amount of information, the tiny amount of variability in the amount of information that one neuron can pass along and, uh, to the rest of the network.
But, but, but, but, and so the, the whole, the whole thing is like everything in deep learning, in deep learning is like reduced to, um, you know, you have this network, but it only is processing frequency information for the most part.
It's not processing spatial information.
And, um, when, when you can, if you could, um, we, like we can say like now with the latest research that has been, that this, the perceptron is basically invalid.
It's based upon this, this, um, it's based upon, I wrote, I wrote an article about this.
I think it's extended later, but it's, it's, um, it's based upon, um, uh, so the reality is that, that neurons, um, uh, they have, uh, okay.
Yep.
Okay.
