=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0306y A thousand brains with Jeff Hawkins Neurons Frames Reference
First recorded: 2021-04-24T02:27:27.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/53cbd892-878e-422d-8547-27f6699fd1db
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Absolutely, I agree. Thank you, Vian.
Hey, folks, Max Bench here. Thanks for hosting this. This is a very awesome conversation. Thanks for inviting me to the side.
Hi, Max.
Hey, so I love the book, obviously. I'll fanboy all over it. But the question I have is the following.
It's so cool that one microcircuit in sensory cortex can both process vision and process sound and process touch.
That is a mind-blowing fact. And the concept that each individual column builds its own model of the world and it uses motor commands to predict upcoming sensory input is amazing.
But what is even more amazing to me, or at least additionally amazing, is that the parts of neocortex that generate the motor commands themselves, the parts of neocortex that generate skills and plans and volition, those things that are even more human than just perception, use the exact same microcircuit in frontal cortex.
So I guess my question is, you know, on the research agenda, have you folks thought about or when are you thinking about taking the microcircuit architecture you folks have started to work on for perception and try and re-implement it for actual action planning and creating volitional agents that plan in their environment?
Yeah, so I think the short answer is, you know, gosh, we're doing one thing at a time and we're focusing on basic sensory perception.
But I think it's a slight misinterpretation perhaps, Mac.
Yet every column in the neocortex, regardless of where it is, regardless of what, if it's doing high-level thinking, or it's just doing basic sensory perception from the fingers, has a motor output.
Meaning, if you look at these columns, there's a certain cell type in layer 5, which is the motor output cells.
People used to think there was a motor section of the neocortex, and so there's motor cortex.
That's not true at all.
Every section of the neocortex is a motor, has a motor output.
So the low-level visual regions, the regions that get direct input from the eye, they project back to the part of the older brain that moves the eyes.
So they actually control how the eyes are moving as they're building their models of the world.
And they can solve sort of, I wouldn't know if I'd call it volitional problems, but they can say, okay, you know, how would I move to see something?
The same thing is true of touch, the parts of getting input from your skin and control the movement of the skin.
So that thing can learn, like, how do I move my finger to hit the start button on my cell phone, something like that.
Even audition is like this, because you don't think of audition as a motor thing, but the parts of the cortex that get input from the ears project back to the brain stem, which moves the head.
So you change your orientation of the ears to the world, just like you change your orientation of the eyes to the world.
So this core algorithm is a sensory motor algorithm.
So the motor behaviors you might think about for low-level perception are moving the eyes and moving the fingers and tilting the head, and that solves certain types of low-level problems.
But you don't think it was like, oh, how am I going to, you know, create a new bridge?
It's not going to happen there.
But the basic core algorithm is like, okay, I have these reference frames.
The reference frames tell me how I should move to achieve certain results.
And that result may be something simply like, where is the power switch on my smartphone?
But it could be applied to something else, like what action should I take to design a new bridge or a new type of, you know, material.
So I think when we're really getting at these core algorithms, even in the sensory cortex, you're getting at the core functions for all movements.
Even though some cases those movements are much more high-level and, you know, more volitional, if you want to, that's a term you used.
Maybe we're not even aware of the movements of our eyes most of the time.
You know, we're not aware that we move our eyes in saccades three times a second.
But most of the time I might be aware that I'm doing something more of a higher-level thought.
But we think, I guess I'm trying to say that by studying any part of the cortex, you're basically revealing the mechanisms for other parts.
And we are just, you know, we're happy just to be able to figure out how to get a machine to see and grab a cup and know what it is.
For starters, that's what we're right now taking vision would be good.
That's a great question.
Ray Dong, please briefly introduce yourself and ask.
Sure, thanks, Jen.
Hi, my name is Ray Dong, a scientist.
So very happy to be doing this that you probably got it right.
There is this very general algorithm throughout the cortex that's doing different jobs.
And that can be stacked together to be more abstract.
And it's really great.
But my question will maybe fall into a similar category as previous two questions,
which is there are certain things that I haven't been able to conceive of using reference frames.
So I'll give you an example.
So say I think about the problem of why there are seasons.
And through some learning or experiment or observation, I come up with explanation that involves this giant ball running in space surrounding another giant ball.
And there's this explanation that will know how it is.
So this general process of coming up with a story that is about what exists in the world that I cannot interact with through my senses and my motor actions.
And yet I have this theory in my mind.
And it is helpful in a very, very, very direct way for me understanding my sensory environment.
Do you think of this kind of processes also in the framework, in the same framework?
Or do you think maybe there are some different level of analysis that is required to study some birth started starting?
When you retrieve thoughts, you're moving through reference frames.
And you're moving from location to location.
The analogy is similar to like if I want to think about what's in my house.
I have to imagine moving from room to room in my house.
And as I do that, the ideas come into it.
Moving through a reference frame.
So there has to be an analogy to moving something, but I'm doing the same neural process.
I'm saying here is an operator that I'm going to say, which is like a movement.
And when I do that, I go to some new location.
In the book, I give the example of mathematics.
And you could think of like a mathematical operator is like a physical movement.
If I multiply something or I use a Laplace transform on it or I do some sort of matrix multiplication,
this is like a movement that says given where I am and I do this movement,
I can now predict where I will be and what will be.
I have to admit it's a bit fuzzy, but the neuroscience is very clear about this.
We don't see neural structures that are substantially different.
And so we take that as our guiding principle to start with is that until we see how far we can go,
today we have to be a little...
What you just said is a really good description of how all of this can be expressed in reference frames.
And my puzzle comes from how do you arrive at those specific structures to operate on.
Oh, how did I decide the right reference frame?
Yes.
About the...
It doesn't know the dimensionality of the space it's going to be working in.
And it doesn't know...
It doesn't have a...
It's sort of a very open-ended system.
It says, okay, I'm going to learn how many dimensions this thing.
I'm modeling something in the world.
It could be a coffee cup or it could be the solar system or it could be a concept like a democracy.
And it doesn't have a pre-assumed knowledge like, oh, here's my reference frame.
I'm going to put the data into it.
It actually has to discover the right way of doing that.
We'll get a little technical here.
I hope that's okay.
The way I think about it is I believe that the many columns in New York courts are representing one-dimensional movement vectors.
So you actually have like hundreds of...
A single column can have hundreds of potential dimensions.
It's an over-complete set of dimensions.
And it figures out through observation what is the correct or what is a useful way of discovering the structure of the thing.
And I actually have a very concrete theory of how this occurs.
I haven't published it.
But I've talked about it in some of our research.
The cortex has to learn.
It doesn't come in like saying, oh, the world is going to fit into a Cartesian coordinates of XYZ.
It says, I have 100 dimensions to work with or 200 dimensions to work with.
I'm going to figure out how to use them to define the space of the thing I'm observing.
And it's basically all going to be based on observation.
As the data comes in and we get movement data, we're going to say, okay, what's the best way of learning this structure?
I also make a point in the book that we can learn that the same set of facts can be applied to different reference frames.
I use an example of history.
You can take a set of historical facts.
You can align them along.
One reference frame, which is a timeline, and another reference frame, which is a map of the world.
And both are valid, but you end up with different sort of inferences and beliefs about causality depending on how you arrange them.
So it's not that there is one correct way.
It can be multiple ways, and there can be incorrect ways.
And this is why when it comes to knowledge that we can't directly observe, things we can't physically touch, we can end up with different beliefs, the same facts, and arrange them in a different reference frame and come up with a completely different belief.
It's hard to have those different beliefs.
Jeff's first book, Unintelligence, there's actually quite a cult following in China.
Oh, yeah.
Unintelligence.
Yes, yes, yes.
So once Jeff's A Thousand Brain Chinese version comes out, we might have to do a Chinese version of a discussion.
That would be amazing.
I told Jen, I've heard that story quite a bit, but around the world, actually.
It always makes me nervous because in the book, in Unintelligence, I made a call to action.
I said, you know, why don't you come and get in this field?
It's going to be exciting.
And then when people actually did it, I'm like, oh, my gosh, I hope this is working out for you.
I'm nervous now.
I can tell you going to neuroscience conferences, you know, back when we went physically to these conferences, it's really fun walking around with Jeff at these conferences
because you can hardly take two steps before someone comes in and says, oh, I'm in this field because of you and, you know, read the book.
It's really quite fun to walk around the conference.
Well, you know, it is nerve-wracking to hear that, and we hope people's careers turn out well and hope they're happy.
On the other hand, you know, I think that's the goal of this book, right?
The goal of my new book is to say, my gosh, it's even a better time to get involved because we've made so much progress,
especially if you want to build machines that work on these principles.
This is really going to happen.
And if you're young, it's going to happen in your lifetime, you know, and so it's one of the reasons I wrote the book, I guess,
is to get more people excited about it, get them engaged because there's so many really smart people out there,
and, you know, I'm just trying to get some of their mind sharing, you know.
Yeah, thank you so much.
Chris, you're next, and Mel, Alexis, and Mika, Jory, thank you so much for your patience.
We'll get to you.
Chris, you're up.
Hi, Jeff.
So my question is related to Chapter 9 in your book, which is titled When Machines Are Conscious.
So, of course, the interesting property of consciousness, for me at least, is how when I actively observe what is in my consciousness
and I am aware that I am attending to those contents, it feels like something.
It feels like an experience.
And this is my conscious awareness.
It's fascinating how, like, seemingly dumb matter can create this feeling.
So my question is, do you think this ability to feel my awareness, to be aware that I am aware, is critical for a machine AGI?
Or do you think this property of consciousness is something that is just, like, one possible method that emerges in humans to accomplish certain cognitive goals,
but it's not necessary in principle to have in an AGI?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Go ahead.
Does that answer your question?
Well, I was going to ask, if it is possible that this is necessary, how might we attain this or configure an AGI to do this feeling?
Yeah.
So I took a stab at some of this.
And the first thing I wanted to point out is that I don't believe that, I mean, I do believe that brains, physical matter, can be consciousness.
That is, we don't have a separate mind.
We don't have a separate consciousness.
There's no other me inside the brain and the mind are one of the same.
And most neuroscientists hold that belief.
That's true.
And so then the question is, well, how does this matter do this, right?
What is it?
And I make, there's two major points to this.
One is, your brain has a model of the world.
I talked about that.
But it has a model of itself, too.
A good portion of your neocortex is dedicated to modeling yourself.
So you have a model of your own self in this world.
So you're imagining yourself as part of this world.
You're imagining the world.
You're watching yourself.
Your brain is modeling itself, moving through the world and knows about itself.
But this idea of this sense of presence is the term I like to use, is, you know, is an interesting one.
And I know it puzzles a lot of people.
It doesn't puzzle me so much.
I used to say, maybe I'm a zombie.
You know, I just don't have this.
But I make an argument that I think a key component of this is this idea that at any moment in time, there's a state of, some neurons are active.
That's what your current thought is.
And as those thoughts come into your head, one after another, basically just instantiation of active neurons, the brain actually remembers them.
It remembers the series of thoughts.
It may not remember them for very long, but it remembers them.
I can recall some things we just said a few minutes ago here.
I laid down a memory trace of the things I was thinking, the thoughts that were going through my head.
I also can think about the future.
I can imagine, oh, what would be the next thing that's going to happen or what will happen if I do this?
And I remember those speculations, too.
So those are just activations saying, oh, these are things that might occur in the future.
So I have this memory of not only the things that were in the recent past, the things that have happened.
Then there's the state of the brain right now, what's happening this instant.
And also, I can remember what I was thinking about doing in the future.
And we kind of slide back and forth through these all the time.
And this gives us a sense of presence.
If I couldn't remember what I just did a minute ago, there was no memory of my thoughts, of what I said, then I would be like a zombie.
I would be constantly waking up saying, what am I doing?
What's happening?
Why am I here?
And so we slide back and forth between instantiating these previous memories and the memories of the future and the current state.
And this gives us our sense that we're here, that we're present, that I can say, yes, I was just doing this a second ago.
My body was doing this.
I was thinking this.
My thoughts were this.
Now I'm doing this.
What was I thinking I'm going to do?
And it's this ability to slide back and forth between this.
I was thinking, I am doing, I was thinking about the future that gives us a sense that we're here, that we're present, that I exist in the world.
I argued and I gave some thought experiments.
If I erased that ability that you could no longer remember what you just thought, what you just did, you would be like a zombie.
You would be just like constantly waking up going, what the hell is going on?
Now your question relates to this because I think most intelligent machines that are going to be useful,
if I'm going to build a machine that's thinking about mathematics or build a machine that's going to build structures on Mars or something like that,
those machines are going to have to have this property, and therefore they will feel conscious in that way.
It is possible we might be able to build machines that don't have to do that.
They just have to solve this one thing, do it, and forget about it, and then do the next thing, do it, and forget about it.
And in some sense, that's where our deep learning networks are today.
They don't remember that they just, you know, if you show a picture of a cat to a deep learning system and it says it's a cat,
then you show a picture of a car, it doesn't say, you know, I was just thinking about cats, but now I'm thinking about cars.
It doesn't do that.
It has no memory whatsoever.
And that's still useful.
So I imagine you could come up with systems that are useful that don't have that property.
But if you want something that we would say, that thing is really solving difficult problems, and it's contemplating them, and it's working through them,
it's going to have that property, and therefore it's going to have that sort of sense, feeling of sense.
That's my belief.
Well, it's fascinating.
Thank you.
I mean, the feature of being able to slide between future and past memories of those things gives the emergent feeling of something happening right now.
That's kind of fascinating.
So thank you.
That's my best guess.
That's my best guess.
We'll see if it's right.
I think it might be.
Mel?
Hi, Jeff.
Thank you so much for taking my question.
I just wanted to preface this with I'm neither a neuroscientist nor an engineer, but I have been deep diving in your YouTube channel for many years,
so I really appreciate everything that you put out because it helps people like me get access to incredible information.
So just a little preface.
But I wanted to ask, I sort of have two questions that are interlinked.
So the first one is, how do you think about what context looks like in the brain?
I'm going to ask you, to clarify that, and maybe I'll answer it, maybe Subhita will answer it.
Yes.
Can you be a little more, what do you mean by context?
We use that term for something very precise, and I don't know if it's the same way you're using it.
Well, I mean, that's kind of, that's interesting because I'd love to know what you use it for as well.
I guess.
Well, we could start with that.
Yeah, that might be a really great way to say it would be cool.
It's pretty low level, sort of.
Yeah, I think we talked earlier about how the brain is constantly making predictions,
and it's learning from predictions, mistakes, and prediction mistakes, and correct predictions, and so on.
So in a lot of the work, when we're actually modeling these things,
we have a very specific definition of context,
which is basically a representation of the information that's currently in your brain
that allows you to make predictions, and allows you to anticipate things and form expectations.
And, you know, I can get more technical than that, but basically, that's how we think of context.
It's any sort of information that allows you to then predict something that's about to happen or form expectations.
I can bring it up to a pretty high level.
Let's make it a little bit more tangible.
Imagine you're listening to a melody, right?
Now, the notes in the melody come in, or the intervals, actually, but let's say notes, come in,
and you're recognizing this, right?
And then you predict the next note in the melody.
Now, what was the context of predicting the next note?
Well, it wasn't just the previous note.
It might have been six notes before, or ten,
or maybe even a whole, you know, stanza before.
And so somehow you have these patterns coming into your brain,
which is this note, or interval, interval, interval,
and then you make a prediction based on some previous context.
So internally, the neurons have to represent not only where you are in this melody,
like what was the last note that you heard,
but it has to sort of represent the entire history up to that point
in a way that allows you to make the next prediction correctly
because the previous note, the previous two notes,
and the previous ten notes may not be, they may be identical.
You make a different prediction.
So there's an actual way that the neurons,
and we've written papers about this,
that neurons can represent this sort of input in context
in a way that incorporates both like,
oh, I'm listening to, you know, the interval of a third,
and that happens to be, you know, the fourth interval of a third
in Beethoven's, you know, Third Symphony or something like that.
And there's a neural substrate for that,
so that allows that prediction to be made.
It's pretty fascinating how it works,
but that's sort of a, bring what Subutai said up to a little more,
you know, a relatable exercise.
And maybe one other thing to add,
what's interesting, you know, from a theoretical standpoint
is it looks like maybe 90% of the connections in our brain
are all about processing context.
And so this is, you know, it's quite remarkable
when we realize this, that most, a lot of what we're doing
and a lot of what's going on in the neurons
is processing context,
and that's how it's making predictions constantly.
For those who know neurons,
I mean, the neurons are the cells of the brain,
and they have these things called synapses,
which is the connections on them,
and a typical neuron in the neocortex
may have something from 5,000 to 10,000 of these connections.
But most neural networks rely on just a few hundred connections.
They don't have 10,000 connections.
And in the neuroscience, it doesn't,
it was hard for people to imagine
what all these other connections were doing.
They didn't seem to be strong enough to make the neuron fire.
They were like, we have all these thousands of connections,
but they don't really make the neuron fire.
What is going on?
And we propose a very concrete theory of what's going on.
And all those, you know, 90% or 95% of the connections in the brain
on each individual neuron is more than just in the brain,
but on each individual neuron, as Subutai said,
are dedicated to this context, to prediction,
to saying, this is a context I recognize
where I became active once before,
so I'm going to predict my activity based on that context.
So, yeah, I guess it's sort of like the whole brain
is a big context processor.
Yeah, instead of maybe tying it back,
it's, I don't know how deep we want to go here,
but tying it back to reference frames,
you know, when we talk about representations of location
and knowing where you are,
those are all, that's all,
that all becomes context for our neurons
to then make predictions.
So knowing where you are on the coffee cup,
that there's some, a vector of neurons
that represents that location using reference frames,
and that allows you to predict what you're going to feel
as you touch that point of the coffee cup.
Yeah, that's a very kind of low-level example,
but it ties all the way back to reference frames.
So I'm not sure, Mel, if that were you meant by context,
but that's a pretty...
Yeah, that's totally fascinating.
You're getting me so much.
And it's so interesting how movement and time
ties into all of that,
which is, you know, obviously all the way back
at the foundation of many of your theories,
which is, yeah, it's super fascinating and amazing.
So my next question that was tied into that kind of interlinked gen,
I'm sorry, I asked you two questions,
I hope that's okay.
I was wondering how you think about authenticity
within all of this.
So how do you capture, measure, track authenticity
in the brain in relation to that,
if you're thinking about what's emerging
from these 90% of context...
What do you mean by authenticity?
Authenticity.
So, well, this is the thing,
like, how do you think about that?
Is it in behavior, authenticity is like
whatever behavior emerges next
as a spontaneous reaction to what is already had, right?
So how are you thinking about that
as a representation within all of this understanding?
So unlike context,
we don't use the word authenticity at all.
So Supertai, did you have any idea
how you might respond to that?
Yeah, I'm not quite sure what you meant.
You mean...
It's almost like individual behavior.
Yeah, so it's like individual behavior
is nuanced by a sort of idiosyncrasy
that's authentic to an individual's experience
or collective, right?
Well, okay, so look, this all goes back,
I can't emphasize this enough,
the cortex is building this model of the world
and it's literally like a CAD model of the world.
It's like figuring out where everything is,
its structure, where everything is related
to everything else.
We don't all build the same model of the world.
We don't have the same experiences
and so our models can be different.
They are different.
Even observing something simple like a chair,
well, depending on what culture you're brought up in,
you know, you might see something as a chair
and someone else sees it as something else
and so we're different.
There's just no question about it
and sometimes these differences are apparent,
sometimes they're so subtle that we don't notice them.
But I think this idea of individuality
is just the nature of the business.
Our model of the world is not an accurate model of the world.
It is the best model our brains have made
and it's not a model of the complete world.
You know, we can only model the part of the world
we've experienced
and so, you know, and it can be wrong
because we have limited sensors.
So it's certainly going to be a limited part of the world.
So I think it's natural that any two individuals' brains,
even two people who had nearly identical experiences in life,
will end up with different beliefs
about certain parts of the world
and different understandings of them.
And if that's what you're talking about,
authenticity,
then I think it's a natural outcome of this.
It's almost unavoidable.
Almost a vantage point.
Thank you, Mel.
Mika, thank you so much.
Hi, everyone.
Hi, Jeff Hawkins.
Hi there.
So my name is Michael Bloomberg
and like many people, apparently, that you've met,
my life was changed after I read the book On Intelligence,
co-authored by Jeff.
I guess he was the main speaker, though.
I've watched...
I've read both of the books.
I've watched so many of the videos,
talks that Numenta has shared,
including many of the talks by Jeff.
And many of the other ones, too.
I want to say I should probably talk a little faster.
So I've studied neuroscience and computer science since then,
including computational neuroscience and neural networks.
I became a computer programmer since then.
I maintain a couple of open source projects.
I have a group on Facebook called Self-Aware Networks.
It's pretty cool.
A deep learning group on Facebook has 147,000 members.
Neurophysics group, neurocircuits group.
I did the Neuralace podcast.
I actually asked the people at Numenta if I could interview Jeff Hawkins,
but at the time I was not successful.
Maybe I'll send another request.
Sure.
I totally understand.
Niko, what's your question?
So I wanted to get out of the question then.
So if a single microcircuit is doing multimodal assembly of objects
or ideas or abstract notions,
and every column in the neocortex has motor output,
is every neural column doing multimodal processing?
Is every column of the visual cortex doing processing
with the somatosensory cortex and audio cortex?
No, no.
No, actually, the columns,
someone sort of suggested this earlier.
It's not true.
The columns of it are not multimodal.
In one sense, they're not multimodal.
So a column getting input from the finger
is modeling the world from what that finger can feel, right?
So if I move my finger over and touch something,
it builds a model of the thing.
I'm touching it.
A column in the visual cortex is looking at a small patch of the retina,
and it's like looking through a straw,
and it's trying to build a model of what it sees by moving around.
So in some sense, the columns are not multimodal.
However, the columns vote, and we didn't talk about that yet,
but they vote to reach a consensus.
So columns in the visual cortex
project to columns in the auditory cortex.
This was a complete surprise to neuroscientists
when they found this because by traditional theories,
the low-level visual inputs wouldn't have anything to tell you
about the low-level touch or somatosensory inputs.
But the voting explains this.
And so what we find, what neuroscientists who do empirical studies have found
is that we can say, oh, the visual cortex is just doing vision,
but it's modified by, in some sense, the context.
It's giving context from the somatosensory cortex or the auditory cortex.
And so they can see these influences,
but it's really they're just trying to vote.
They're trying to say, like, if my visual cortex,
if I'm feeling something,
and I say, this feels like a coffee cup,
but my visual inputs are highly obscured,
then I can then, then the visual cortex can say,
well, you know, the somatosensory cortex says it's feeling a coffee cup.
I'm probably looking at a coffee cup,
so let's see if we can interpret this as a coffee cup.
And yes, I can.
And, but if I didn't have that input from the somatosensory cortex to touch,
I wouldn't, the visual cortex wouldn't have been able to do that.
So in that way, they are multimodal.
They get this voting neurons, these voting that goes across.
But the actual input, it's not like there's this column in the visual cortex.
It's processing sound directly from the ear and light from the eyes.
When you get to higher levels of cortex,
of course, you, you do have things that are modeling things
independent of the sensory modality and that,
but you could argue those are multimodal in some sense.
But it says, I get some input from someplace,
and I'm going to try to build a model from it.
And it might be in some higher level region of the cortex.
It might be getting input from three other places at once,
but it doesn't know that.
It just says, I'm just getting this input,
and I'm going to try to question about multimodality.
So the division of labor across the cortex
still might be similar to what neuroscience has already talked about.
Including ourselves, by the way, because they need to be on it.
It sounds like we might have a thousand visual concepts
of a coffee cup in a visual cortex,
and a thousand audio concepts of a coffee cup in an audio cortex,
and those are just linked together.
That's right.
That's right.
But I wonder, for you,
does this sound similar to like, you know,
like a hologram when you have many copies of the same thing,
or like a fractal?
No.
That is the whole key, how models are built.
They're built by using objects in relative positions to one another
and learning with the strength.
Two quick questions.
Do you believe...
Thank you, Mike.
Thank you, Mike.
Can we...
Because there are a lot of people still waiting quite patiently.
If we have time after we go through,
we can come back to you.
Is that okay?
Okay.
I'm conscious of Jeff and Shubatai's time.
We're coming up two hours soon.
So, Jory, Mark, Vince,
can you, in turn, ask your questions,
and we can combine those questions in case Shubatai and Jeff can combine their answers.
Jory, your question, please?
Sure.
It's two-part.
You can answer whichever one you think is more interesting.
The first one is, you know, I have aphantasia,
which means I don't have any sort of visual experience when I think.
I don't see images.
And when you were talking earlier about reference frames,
you were talking about how when you were thinking about your house
or the things that are in your house,
you're kind of like mentally walking through your house.
There's a certain percentage of people that just don't do that.
And so I was just curious, first part of what, you know,
how do you think about reference frames in relationship to cognition
that doesn't involve visualization?
And the second question just would be that how important do you think it is
for artificial intelligence to have some kind of embodied experience
in order to take it to the next level in terms of thinking?
Whereas, you know, we form abstract ideas by, you know,
piggybacking off of our physical experience.
So we think about ideas as objects that we can grasp with our hands.
As you mentioned earlier, it's very hard to get a, you know,
something to just pick up an object.
And, you know, we think about ideas as objects,
which we can grasp, they go over our heads.
You know, we can't get our hands around them.
I was just curious how important you thought it was to get machines
to even be able to grasp things to, you know,
to really be able to get them to think about ideas in general.
Thank you.
Jeff, can you hold on your answer if you can remember the questions?
I will try to write on as well.
Mark, Vince, Mark, could you please ask your question?
Let's move on to Vince.
Are you ready to ask your question?
They might need to unmute themselves.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I see Mark is a new user.
Mark, okay, Mark, do you want to ask your question, please?
Yeah, sorry about that.
Yeah, I am a new user.
That's very good neocortex there.
So, Jeff, you know, one of the reasons we're not supposed to fear AI,
that AI, as I think you propose in your book,
it's simply a reasoning machine, like the neocortex.
And the things that drive our emotion, the old brain,
the fight-or-flee impulse, which is geared towards us wanting to survive,
those are kind of our, that's the dangerous part of our brain.
And so my question is, like, where does the desire to know things come from?
Like, your passion to understand the brain and the pleasure you get from that.
It seems like, to me, the older brain is geared with Maslow's lower needs,
you know, the shelter, food, things like that, survival.
And that's where the fear impulse comes from, which could lead to hatred.
But the noble side of the brain is just not the neocortex.
The things that we've invented, like, ideas like law or the Ten Commandments,
that we saw value in them as ways of constraining the old brain,
constraining impulses and emotions and desires for something more noble.
And so I guess my question is, couldn't AI, equal to us or greater,
create its own ethical, moral constructs and perhaps say, you know,
for the good of the Earth, we need to limit humans.
They seem to be edging the Earth towards destruction.
We need to do something about that as a logical thing.
And so that's kind of my question.
Thank you.
Thank you, Mark.
Vince, can we move on to Vince?
What's your question?
Yeah, my question is basically, actually, two questions.
One is screen time on children.
I got a 14-month-year-old, and so is there, like, any evidence that it really
decreases the intelligence or kind of makes a child hyperactive or something like that?
And then the second question is, I have a theory that, you know,
like the genes that a child gets passed over, you know,
sometimes the child can have, like, a high IQ, way higher than both parents.
And my theory is, like, maybe that, you know, assuming everything else is in place,
like, you know, breastfeeding, reading, you know, all the nature, nurturing, all that stuff.
But my theory is, like, maybe that, you know, certain childs,
there's things that are unaccounted for.
Like, maybe that child ate, you know, a bunch of pomegranate between nine months and 12 months
or 20% more water, you know, in the age of one or two.
So I'm just curious on your thoughts on both those questions.
Sure.
Thank you, Vince.
Let's take one more, and so we can save some time.
Vapath, is that the right way to pronounce your name?
Yeah, first of all, thanks a lot for letting me in,
and it's brilliant to hear from such brilliant engines.
My basic question is, how can we think about fast thinking
and slow thinking in context of brain?
Like, sometimes I feel like my reaction thinking and my deep thinking,
the outputs are very different.
So how do the modeling of those processes happen in brain?
Thank you for your time.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you so much.
Supertie, Jeff, do you think you can combine your answers with the last few questions?
We can try.
They're very different questions.
I think we can go through them pretty quickly.
Okay.
First of all, Vince, I don't think we have answers to your questions.
It's like, we study, like, how the healthy brain works,
what are the bases going on there,
and when it comes to things like, you know,
the effective screen time on the brain, I have no idea.
Obviously, it's going to change the brain.
You're going to learn differently.
But is it good or bad?
I don't know.
And we're not going to, we don't even get into the idea that, you know,
what, how different is one human brain versus another based on genetics,
comparison of IQ.
We don't even want to touch that stuff.
So, sorry, I can't give you answers on those.
Mark Weiss.
Hi, Mark.
Mark's a friend of ours.
Nice to hear you.
So, his question about, basically, about ethical constructs.
Um, I, the basic idea, and I'll lay this out in the book,
is that the neocortex itself is essentially devoid of these,
it's anything, devoid of any sort of built-in emotional constructs.
Um, those are older parts of the brain, um,
and, uh, we don't have to build those if we're going to build an intelligent machine.
Now, you might say, well, maybe, uh, the cortex itself will have some,
will develop some ethical constructs.
I don't think that's really likely to happen in this, in any sort of sense.
Because, uh, I think the cortex is built-in, has a built-in desire to occasion is dangerous.
But exploring leads to death.
Um, and so, we are biologically programmed to explore, um, mostly when we're young.
So, you know, if you're going to die, get it over with.
Uh, don't do it once you have children.
And, um, so, there's a sort of built-in, like,
hey, I'm going to try to climb that mountain just for the hell of it,
see what's on the other side.
And then someone else, my older merchant says,
well, you don't want to do that, because, you know,
it could, it could kill you.
Um, so we have this biological bias to do this.
And I think as we build intelligent machines,
we'll have to ask ourselves, do we want to do something similar?
And when do we want to do it?
Under what conditions?
If I'm relying on something maintaining my, my, you know,
habitat on Mars, the example I use in the book a bunch of times,
I don't want it, you know, experimenting much.
You know, I don't really want it to try new things too often.
Uh, I want it to go out there and get the job done.
Uh, on the other hand, if I'm building a mathematician robot,
I might say, you know, go ahead and experiment all you want.
Try new, you know, go down paths that don't seem fruitful,
but you might find out the answer to that question.
Um, I think these are parameters we can put on top of an intelligent machine,
but I don't think they're built into the substrate of intelligence itself.
And sometimes I make the argument that intelligence is like having a map of the world.
It's just a model of the world.
On its own, it's kind of indifferent.
It's just a map that says, okay, I know how information,
I know what the world is like, here's my structure for the world,
and how it's used by other parts of the brain matter a lot.
Um, and then Joni, and maybe Supta, you want to jump into this one.
Uh, we think brains need embodiments.
Um, and I make the point that, um, it doesn't have to be a physical embodiment.
Um, you have to, the goal is, the system has to be able to take some sensory input
and, and the thing that's getting the sensory input move.
And so the example I give in the book several times is that you can have something that's, um,
agent on the internet, potentially following links and going to different book pages
and sensing what's there, uh, and learning a model of something,
but it doesn't have to be physical.
There's still a concept of movement and sensation.
Yeah, um, yeah, I mean, we do think, uh, like I said, embodiment is critical
and we will need to build embodiment into, uh, systems, uh, in, in order to make them truly intelligent.
You know, I think AI systems will need to be able to make actions.
We'll need to have predict, make predictions about their actions, uh, learn from the consequences
of their actions and this sort of active paradigm of actually being able to, you know, control
and move through things, um, is critical to learning and to building a model of the world
and, and really understanding the structure of the world.
I think you asked a question about, you know, visual input and, you know, how critical visual
input is, uh, and forming visual sort of models of this, um, you know, that's, that's optional.
And, uh, you know, there, uh, people who are totally blind who have very, very rich reference
frames, uh, and models of the world and structural models of the world, um, you know, and, and the
exact modality is not that important.
And that's sort of one of the really interesting things about cortical columns and the common
algorithms is that the exact sensory modality is almost irrelevant.
You need a, you need rich, uh, you need, you need rich input, but any sensory modality will
work.
Um, and the same algorithm can work across all, all modalities.
I think the last question about, uh, fast thinking, slow thinking, we talked about that
earlier and I give a long winded answer to it.
I don't want to do it again here.
Um, I think there's not a really, it's not a clean map between our models and what is the
concept of fast thinking and slow thinking.
And I do believe that fast thinking and slow thinking, that concept is maybe a useful way
for humans to think about it a little bit, but from our point of view, there's really
not much of a distinction between those two.
It's, it's just a matter of how much you're attending to something, um, or not.
And, uh, if you don't attend to it, it happens quickly.
You just make, you basically don't build your model.
It's not some intuition.
It's just, you have a model, the model acts.
If you want to not act right away and think about alternate, um, but it's not really a hard
distinction that we do.
We try to, we couldn't really combine those together, but yeah, thank you, Jeff.
Um, so we, we are coming up to two hours.
I have a couple more people raising their hands once to come on the stage.
I'll reframe doing that.
Um, uh, once we address, uh, the rest of people on the stage, the questions and, um, Jeff,
super tight up to you to, to decide to stay or not.
Um, and when we leave, we don't have to, uh, close the room.
People in the room can continue this fascinating discussion.
So, um, uh, Morteza, Masu, Hector, and BF Peterson, uh, if you can get your questions
ready and, uh, we will, uh, come by those questions again.
Morteza?
Yeah.
Thanks for the room.
So I have a quick question for Jeff.
What is the difference between the representation and computation?
And I have another question, all these frame, uh, framework, how do you compare that with
the internal model and predictive coding when the, in the absence of any external stimulus?
Means when you close the eyes and there is no stimulus, neither auditory, uh, visual, no
stimulus.
How do you compare these two, uh, uh, maybe you understood that question better than I do.
I don't know.
Uh, Masu, do you want, uh, uh, do you, do you, yeah, let's go, go, go through the questions
together.
Well, that was a tough one.
I'm going to have trouble remembering that one, but, uh, I'll, I'll get back to it.
Okay.
Cool.
Okay.
Um, sure.
I can ask my question, but it's very different from what Morteza asked.
Uh, so mine is about distributed intelligence.
I remember you talked about it and we briefly touched on distributed intelligence, but I wonder
from the perspective of a neuroscientist, when you study brain, do you consider the social
aspect of human intelligence in, uh, this extended or distributed intelligence that we
have?
Um, and, um, um, I'm kind of, um, applying it in my own practice or robotics.
Um, so what I noticed in a lot of like these social colonies, like let's say ants or bees,
or even like fishes and bears, a lot of complex phenomenons are emerging from very, very simple
behaviors, um, in local interactions that are emerging in the global level.
Um, so I wonder studying brain, can we consider some of these extended or social behavior that
we have that all of a sudden like have a complex, um, emergence in brain itself or like in social,
uh, colony that we have as a human.
Um, so then potentially we could apply it in, um, uh, distributed artificial intelligence and
building our AI models in that way to like with, um, um, distributed problem solving, but also
looking at, um, multi-agent system for AI.
Okay.
Okay.
Thank you, Mosu.
Those two are actually quite complex questions.
Shall we tackle those two and then move on to the next two?
Jeff.
Super time.
Um, sure.
I can, I can maybe take the one about predictive coding.
Um, for those who don't know, predictive coding is a particular kind of mathematical model of
how the brain works.
It's a Bayesian, uh, model.
And I think there, there's some relationships between the stuff that we're working on and,
and, uh, predictive coding.
It's one of the few models that also typically looks at, at behavior as well.
Um, but, uh, there are quite a few differences as well.
And, and, you know, the predictive coding, for example, has no concept of reference frames
or any sort of, uh, uh, you know, location-based representation.
And it doesn't really talk about kind of, uh, each, each sort of level of the hierarchy
being complete sensory motor model, modeling systems that model the full structure of the
world.
So, you know, there may be aspects of predictive coding that, that rely, but we think, uh, the
cortical columns are a lot more than, than what that theory, uh, kind of embodies.
And I'll take, uh, Masu's, uh, question.
Um, I, I got this question earlier.
I've also gotten this several other events I've done.
Um, and I guess it's, it must be a current thing that people think a lot about this sort
of social aspect or the, um, you know, collective intelligence.
Um, uh, I, I totally agree that these are very fascinating aspects of, uh, society and, and
other animal, uh, behavior, uh, and clearly play an important role in human endeavors.
Um, our focus has not been on that.
Our focus has really been on saying how to understand a single neocortex works, how it
builds a model of the world, um, and, you know, how is it, the neurons actually do this,
what's happening when you're thinking you're seeing.
Um, that's not to say that's everything, uh, it currently isn't.
Um, but it's a big component of the problem.
It's a very large big component of the problem.
So, um, and, um, and I honestly, I just have to say unless subtype feels otherwise, you
know, we haven't really tried to deal with these more extended phenotypes, if you want
to call it that way.
Um, and it's, you know, that would be just too much it wants to handle.
Um, so, um, not to deny the importance of it, but I do think understanding how an individual
brain works would be sort of a key foundational principle for any sort of extended, um, behavior.
Yeah, and maybe I can add that, uh, you know, the whole theory of how cortical columns sort
of operate on their own and then interact and coordinate with one another is a very concrete
example of a distributed system that's very fault tolerant and has a lot of the properties
that, uh, you might ascribe of, uh, you know, some of the systems you mentioned.
So, uh, maybe, you know, understanding in detail exactly how the thousand brains theory
works and, and operates might give you clues as to how some of those are.
That's a really interesting idea.
I don't think we've ever talked about that before, that, that the voting mechanism that
we have modeled and understand going on in the New York Turks could be, uh, essentially,
um, a very good analogy to what's going on between animals and between species, or between
individuals, um, that, that's, that's really fascinating.
I just want to say that, not that we've thought about it much, but that, that is a really good
idea.
Yeah, we haven't really talked too much, but each person is a complete sensory motor model.
Right, yeah, exactly.
Well, yeah.
Maybe you just made that up some time, but that was great.
Yeah, okay, Hector and, uh, BF Peterson.
Yes, uh, hi, thank you very much.
Uh, first, I, um, I work in, in, I have been working in AI probably my whole life.
Uh, first, I was in academia doing reasoning, and in the last year, I have been doing martial
learning, basically obsessed with the tension between learning and reasoning.
And, and, and in particular, I'm focused on what happened after you have learned in the
inference moment in that particular case, what are the sort of properties we can get?
So this is like the context of my question.
And then, so I was trying to understand, because I'm very concerned with the, with the multiple,
the richness of the combinations that we face when we are acting, right?
This combinatorial structure of the war has some level of abstraction.
So the question is, uh, how is that possible, uh, that we have sometimes these sort of deep
realizations of deep connections using this, uh, this notion of the French.
You mentioned that they would have this 10,000 connection and they might provide, uh, a context,
but for, for all the combination, 10, 10,000 is nothing, right?
Because I mean, there are many, many, many things there.
And, uh, and just for putting an examples, suppose, I don't know, we are, we are in a
trip and then in the middle of something, we are, we, we, we realized that we forgot something
and then go back, back, back.
And then, yes, I left that in that place and I know who's, who I'm going to call.
And there can be a fraction of second.
So the question is, how is it that we can have this sort of, uh, so precise recall or
something that can be far beyond of this scope of 10,000 things?
I'm trying to understand that because it's critical of my work.
So let's just take that right away.
We said a neuron has 10,000 synapses.
That's, that's, that's, that's, that doesn't limit anything.
Here's the way to think about it.
You've got, let's say I have 10,000 neurons, which is a typical number that I might have
representing something with a lot of neurons.
So 10,000 neurons, let's say they're activated as a sparse activation of 2%.
So you have 200 active neurons.
Now the question is, how many things can you represent that way?
It's not 10,000.
It's, it's 10,000 choose 200, which is an astronomical large number, many, many, many times bigger than
the atoms in the universe.
And those representations of them, almost all of them will be very distinct.
They'll overlap very little.
So the representational capacity of a, of a bunch of neurons is extremely high.
It's, there's no limit there.
The question then, the limit comes in memory.
How many of these things can you store?
And it turns out that to store a pattern, even a large pattern across 10,000 neurons,
only takes about 20 to 30 synapses.
I know that sounds weird, but that's true.
And you can do the math, which it's all about the sparsity.
So there is a limit.
There's no limit to representational capacity, but there is a limit to memory.
But the limiting limit is much, much higher than you might originally think.
It's because you don't really have to remember all the details of something to remember.
You only have to remember a few little pieces and it'll be unique.
So these are mathematical properties that you can easily show and, and they play out in neurons.
So that, that question about capacity is what we deal with all the time and we think there's good answers to it.
Now, the question about learning and reasoning, I'm not sure, you know, I don't think we make that the station.
Learning is, but we can just say learning is, is what is, first of all, in the brain, learning never stops.
It's learning all the time.
You never stop learning.
Every time you absorb anything, you walk into your kitchen, you see where the dishes were left,
you know, some piece of food on the counter, you learn that.
It's, it's not like, and it's, and you remember it.
If I walk away, I'll remember it two seconds later.
So we're constantly learning.
And then the question about reasoning is essentially, you've got this model of the world in your head
and you can say, sit there and you can even close your eyes and say, okay, well, what would I,
what would I have to do to do this?
Or what would I have to do to do that?
Or what would be the consequences of doing this?
And that's just playing out the model.
That's just letting the model play itself out.
You say, well, if I did this, what would come back next?
What would, if I did this, what would come back next?
So I don't think we really make that distinction too much between learning and reasoning.
You're kind of doing both simultaneously all the time.
Well, you can shut down the learning part and just sit there and close your eyes and think for a bit.
But most of the time you're doing both of these things.
You're, you're saying, not only do I'm saying, you know, I'm learning new things,
but I'm also predicting what's going to happen, which is a form of reasoning.
I'm going to predict what will happen if I, if I turn left or turn right or open the door or not open the door.
So we don't really make that distinction, unless Subutai disagrees with me and says we do make that distinction.
But I don't think we're doing it.
No, no.
So.
Great.
But it's a fascinating thing.
There's no behind this.
It's just really amazing when you get into it and how these things have this unlimited capacity.
Thank you, Hector.
Bia Peterson and after Bia Peterson, Jeff, Subutai, you can decide if you want to continue the discussion or not.
Bia Peterson, what's your question?
Thanks, Jen.
Subutai and Jeff, thanks very much.
My question is, do free, transparent and open societies potentially serve as better stewards of revolutionary technology like AI?
Or is that concern overblown?
I think it's something I'm an expert to talk about.
So I would be a novice speculating, so I'm going to pass on that level.
You're an AI expert, right?
Well, I'm an expert on brains, right, and how brains work.
And I have a very close theory about how we will build intelligent machines.
And you're asking is, what is the better societal structure for doing that?
I think that's what you're asking.
And I don't know the answer to that question.
I mean, some societal structures I like better than others.
I like open societies, but I like free information, you know, personally.
But you're asking me, what is the better structure for doing that?
I don't know how you even measure that better.
So I'm not trying to avoid your question in the sense I really feel like I'm not an expert at this at all.
And I think it would be sort of disingenuous if I pretended it was.
I don't know if, Sympathite, you feel any differently.
No.
You know, perhaps it's an opportunity to mention that a lot of the stuff that we're doing is super open.
We make sure we, you know, science quite often, a lot of science is done behind paywalls.
And it's often hard to access some of the scientific articles we've made sure to always publish in open access articles.
And we publish our, you know, research openly.
And we try to do as much openly and collaboratively as possible.
So that, you know, from a scientific standpoint, I think, you know, that's been really important to us.
Yeah, I think for our work, you know, open is absolutely the best.
I mean, there are countries in the world who restrict access to information.
And if you do that, you're just eliminating possibilities.
It's just eliminating, you know, what if some country said, you know, I'm never going to tell you about, you know, the planet Saturn.
And I just, if you grew up and you never heard about the planet Saturn, well, you just wouldn't know it existed.
And you wouldn't know that there are planets with rings.
I mean, and so, and then you wouldn't be a good, you know, planetary scientist.
That's a very toyish example.
But, so, yeah, I mean, Supertide's right.
You know, it's sometimes scientific research, it's hard to get because it's behind paywalls and difficult to get.
And so that's a disadvantage.
Yeah, on that, actually, you know, I want to mention that, you know, I feel so thankful that Numenta as a platform has offered so much.
Research and thinking and share with the world.
And it's remarkable work you and your team have done.
And it's so valuable for us.
And, you know, the website itself is such a treasure trove for people who are interested in this topic.
So I highly recommend everybody visit the, you know, website and the channels on YouTube, et cetera.
You will learn a lot.
Jeff, Supertide, we are 12 minutes over two hours.
How do you feel?
I actually have made a few people on the stage as moderator, which means even if we leave the room, the conversation will not end.
So it's completely up to you.
We have four more people raise their hands to ask questions.
So it's completely up to you if you want to continue.
I myself have to leave the latest in 18 minutes.
I have something in 1030 here.
From my perspective, I have, it's 715 in the evening here.
And my wife and Helen, we're going to have dinner soon.
So I don't want to go too long.
So I guess I could stay for a couple more questions.
But I think I don't want to go after that.
I don't know about a certain time.
Yeah, I think that's the same for us.
I think maybe, Jen, your timing and at least my timing lines up pretty well.
So do we want to take two more?
I think we actually have quite a few people waiting.
Thank you very much.
Yeah, thank you.
So Joy and Taring.
Thanks a lot.
I took the test.
So hi, Jeff.
I think I met you like five, six years ago at your office.
You probably don't remember me.
So my question is, so for the last couple of years, we have tons of flow.
We have PyTorch to do the actual pushing learning stuff for like,
image processing and stuff.
But can you update us on how situation, what kind of like scenarios we should use
you might as framework instead of others?
I think, I think we're going to start talking about technology framework.
Yeah, so, you know, we've, as we've talked about earlier,
we've started down the path of implementing different components of the
thousand brains theory into today's kind of machine learning frameworks.
And so, you know, we're still early in the process.
So, you know, obviously we can't run the full path of brain theory yet.
But we've working, we've been working a lot on sparsity.
And so we do have a PyTorch-based framework for applying sparsity to deep
learning systems.
And that's sort of was the basis for a lot of our work on showing how sparsity is
robust and how sparsity can lead to really fast computation and efficient
computation.
So, you know, people are working on deep learning frameworks and then PyTorch
specifically, they can look at our code.
It's all open and available.
It's a new picked up Torch.
It's on GitHub.
So that's one sort of concrete framework that's available.
In terms of kind of scenarios that should be applied to, we really are trying to move as fast as we can
towards doing much more embodied scenarios where, you know, we have agents that are moving around in
the world and actively exploring and learning from their prediction area.
So if anyone is doing research on that, these are areas that follow our research meetings.
These are areas that we're trying to focus on and make progress on.
And all the things that Lucas is trying to pick out a few of those statistics.
Exactly, yeah.
Yes.
Do we fix that?
Anything about learning?
We've talked about it in some of our research meetings.
But those would be great areas, you know, if anyone's working on reinforcement learning or, you know,
embodied areas, taking some of the sparse stuff that we've done and trying to apply them to these
domains would be fantastic.
Enjoy.
Hi again.
Nice to talk to you.
Thanks so much.
Hey, thanks, Jen.
Yeah, great to have Subutai and Jeff here on stage.
I'm actually a big fan of your work.
If for no other reason that it goes against the prevailing dogma that we have today with
the deep learning, machine learning.
So big kudos there.
I did have a question that's kind of like an open-ended question maybe to Jeff or Subutai
is, you know, this sort of like, this sort of subject of, hey, you know what, all you
need is backprop and, you know, universal approximation.
And that has a lot of utility and a lot of applications, so on and so forth.
You know, that seems to be the prevailing dogma today within, you know, deep learning and stuff.
How do you like to talk about the sort of like mitigating that dogma as far as, you know,
backprop goes and things like that?
What would you tell your detractors who say that, you know what, we don't even need to study the brain.
All we need to do is come up with better, you know, better learning algorithms a la the paradigms
that we already have.
What might you say to detractors like that?
Because there's a bunch.
I don't view ourselves as, you know, having detractors or competing with people.
And the way I view it is, there's a lot of people who want to build truly intelligent machines.
And in the end, there's going to be a way of doing that.
I don't think there's going to be multiple ways of doing that.
We're not going to, you know, in the end, we ended up with the Turing machine for computing,
right?
We're going to end up with the equivalent set of principles for intelligent machines.
And, you know, and the question is, what is the quickest way of getting them?
Some people think that you don't need to study the brain because it's not that useful,
even though brains are the one existence proof we have for intelligence.
And they can make a good argument that brains are really complicated, they're hard to understand,
maybe they're messy, you know, it's going to take too long, I don't have time to do
that, I can just think, think about this, and I'll come up with these algorithms, and
it'll be great.
That might have worked.
People have made that argument 40 years ago.
When I got into this field, I was told that argument, and I never believed it.
I said, brains are obviously very complex, they're much more complex than any kind of stuff
we're working on here, they must be working on different principles.
But that could have been wrong.
And so right now we have these very capable deep learning networks, but very few people
think they're really smart, really intelligent.
I mean, that's pretty, that would be an extreme position.
Most people realize they're pretty limited.
And, and then still the question is, is like, well, some people argue, yes, you could just
apply more backprop and you'll get there.
I don't think that's a universal idea.
I think that's kind of, actually, I think might be somewhat fringe.
I think, you know, the leaders of AI have all come out and said, you know, that's probably
not going to work.
So the question still then becomes, you know, what's the, what's the best way of going
forward?
We, we think the best way of going forward is studying brains.
If we're wrong, that's fine.
Someone else will come out.
But right in the moment, we're making great progress.
We've now discovered these major principles underlying intelligence, which we couldn't
have figured out if we hadn't studied brains.
No one else has figured it out.
So if we're right about that, then, you know, that's a good way forward.
So I think that's what I look at.
It's not like, oh, we have the trackers, we're competing.
We're not competing for resource dollars or something like that.
It's like, we're all trying to do the same thing here.
We think our approach has got merit and we're going to stick with it until we find out otherwise.
So that's the way I kind of view that.
In the end, we'll find out what's right.
You know, we'll see what works.
We're betting on our approach.
But it could be, you know, someone else can beat us to it.
I'm betting on your approach, Epsi, but I imagine how much energy Google has consumed
just to training the AI to identify two-dimensional image of Chihuahuas and the blueberry muffins
and then still get confused.
I know.
Right?
It is.
For those who aren't aware of it, the amount of energy consumed to train these models is
unbelievable.
It's incredible.
I'll see what I know more about than I do.
And you might actually even need some new type of hardware just to have a proper substrate
for a lot of this.
Yeah.
Oh, absolutely.
But again, yeah, you know, we're spending a lot of time in that.
Chihuahua and I gave a talk, and, you know, every year we give talks at these networks because
they're interested in people building new types of substrates, new types of processing
elements, and that's clearly going to be necessary at some point.
So, you know, we're going to go through a series of innovations just like the computing
industry did.
You know, computers got started before they knew what the transistor was, and then they
were going before they knew what the integrated circuit was, and then they knew it before,
you know, that there was wireless communications and so on.
And we're going to go through a series of innovations here, too, in the intelligence space.
They're all going to be working on the same principles.
We're going to have these principles defined, just like Turing and Van Norman did in the 40s
and 30s.
So we're going to come up with a set of principles, but it's going to be a long, it's going to
be a cycle.
I don't know how long it'll be, but there'll be a cycle where we're figuring out what's
the best way of implementing these things.
A lot of creativity.
Well, thanks, guys.
That's a privilege for both of you.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Jeff Brang, is that your real name?
Jeff Brang?
I don't know.
So, yeah, on the stage, Jeff Brang, that's her name.
Oh, Jess, not me.
I thought you were talking about me.
Jess, no.
Jess, I'm sorry.
No, it's Jess Brang.
Yeah, Jess Brang.
That seems like...
Really?
Yeah.
Suketu, do you want to ask your question?
Sure, yeah, thank you.
My question was about reference frames, actually.
In that framework, what's kind of being used to generate meaning?
I guess, like, in the body learning, what's the symbol grounding mechanisms?
And you guys just mentioned, like, hardware.
In my mind, if we need to want to, like, you know, embodied hardware, not computational
hardware, but it seems like that might be necessary, or can we drown symbols in other
ways with embodied learning?
You know, the symbol grounding stuff, Sympitide, do you feel comfortable talking about that?
Well, you know, I think in the book, you talk a lot about how knowledge is represented
and how the binding problem can be solved.
I'm not sure if that's the same thing or not.
Yeah, I'm not sure if that's the same thing, but, you know, we think reference frames are
used as a very convenient substrate for storing knowledge.
You know, I don't know about meaning, per se, but knowledge is stored in the brain in reference
frames, and you can make inferences about that knowledge, you can make predictions about
that knowledge.
You know, so there's a lot of kind of capabilities you get from storing data in reference frames,
per se.
Let's just talk about that briefly.
Yeah, let's just talk about that briefly.
I may not get to your question, but first of all, these reference frames, we know how
they're done in neurons in the brain.
There were some, there were these things called grid cells and play cells, which have been
studied for decades, and we actually know a lot how this is done.
It's not totally, this is not, this is made up speculation, so.
But, as soon as I said, what reference frames give you is a way of organizing knowledge about
something in a useful way.
It makes it actionable.
It makes it say, I can form, I can see analogies between structures that are different, that
are different components, but they have the same structure to them.
I can arrange similar, I can arrange things in a certain way that is different things,
but in the same arrangement, and then I can infer that I could, you know, operate on
them in the same way.
So, at a very high level, you can, I'm writing sort of a metric structure to knowledge, and
that lets you act as long as they have the same underlying structure.
So, it's a very fundamental property, knowing, knowing the relationship to something, to other
things, and how, if you act upon this thing, how it's likely to behave, then reference
frames.
Thank you.
Thank you so much, Jeff and Supertai.
This has been such a rich discussion, and the book is called A Thousand Brains, and I
highly encourage all of you to get a book, and read, and prepare your mind, get blown.
And the research platform called NuMenta, that Supertai led, leads all the, using the theory
of applying artificial intelligence, and as I mentioned, the NuMenta website is a treasure
trove if you're interested in those topics.
I guess, Jeff and Supertai, this, I think this is a good place to end the discussion.
We can leave the room, and people in the room can continue the discussion, and I guess
the best way to learn more is to visit NuMenta website, and also read the book.
You won't be disappointed if you're interested in this topic.
There's a lot of, also, a lot of lectures we've given on YouTube.
Hey, Jen, I want to thank you for organizing this.
It's been questions, we're fascinating, and it's great to get.
Oh, it's my pleasure.
It's a true pleasure.
Thank you both so much.
Thank you, Jen, for organizing this.
It's been great, and our first Clubhouse experience.
I think it was a great success.
Thank you so much.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
And Lushu, Lian, Choi, Chris, I've made you a moderator, so feel free to continue the
discussion.
Thank you so much.
Goodbye.
Thank you so much.
Bye.
