=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0317y Simulation part 2 Metaphors Sort
First recorded: 2021-04-12T09:17:37.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/fd9a7e49-0de1-4219-861a-b52b2ac83479
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Mathematical structure, for example, like we have two processes. One process is A, and the other one is B. And let's say B is a simulation running on A. So from this statement, I think we can come up with two assumptions.
So if B is running on A, which more formally, we can say B is superbint on A. So superbint means all the dynamic of B, all the state of B is determined by A. So B is the simulation running on A.
So this is the first one. And if we want to answer our question, are we living in the simulation? We can reform this question into another statement.
Can we know we are living in the simulation? So which means whether B can receive information from A, some extra information from A, so that B can know whether A exists or not.
So we can reform all this problem. So we can reform all this problem into some kind of information theoretical oriented. So we have two things here. So one is B is determined by A, and another one is whether in this situation, whether B can receive information from A.
Okay. And this is what represents from A to B. So if there is information flow from A to B, then we can say B can receive distance of A.
So that information flow from A to B, we can use some traditional way like transport entropy. We can compute transport entropy from A to B, and then we can quantify how much information from A to B.
And then if there is some information transfer from A to B, then we can say B is possibly and B is able to know the existence of A. But if there is no information from A to B, then we can say it's informationally close with respect to A.
So you say B is actually they are informationally blind to the microscope process. So which also in the mathematical sense that if we have self-contained information process, then it can be actually informationally close with respect to the process A that determines B.
So here comes to a very important conclusion. The first one is, okay, even there are some hidden behind curtain culture structure behind our universe.
But if our universe is information or we precisely say it's informationally close, we never be able to, we never have a chance to discover something behind it. That's the first thing.
The second thing is related to the question of whether if we discover something behind the curtain. So some find some cultural structure behind it. And we actually just expand our scientific horizon.
Like like when we have classical physics, but we found the quantum mechanism, and then we include that kind of knowledge into our model of the universe.
So if we really find some cultural structure behind the curtain, then actually I don't think it's so different from finding new science. Yeah, that's not my opinion.
Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you so much, sir. You'll show you have like five more minutes left and you, um, okay, short woman. Uh, can I, uh, quickly respond?
Oh, please do. So, uh, uh, uh, please correct me if I, uh, try to translate this a little bit. Uh, imagine that we are living as I, I gave it as an example in Minecraft.
Minecraft and Minecraft is causally closed, which means it doesn't leak any kind of information about the computer that it runs on into Minecraft itself.
And this is the case for the Minecraft that we have right now. So if you are living inside of Minecraft, you cannot recognize whether it runs on an iPad or on a PC or a Mac.
Because the same, uh, software abstraction, the slight differences in the underlying software, because it's a different hardware that it runs on, produce the same dynamics on different hardware.
So there's no way for you to deduce the, uh, true nature of the underlying hardware because the software level is causally closed.
This is exactly what we talked about, uh, more informational closure of the universe, right?
Exactly. Exactly.
Okay. Okay. So the, uh, uh, and, uh, this also means that if you are able to figure out certain regularities about the outside universe and, uh, you don't have any other Minecraft instances to compare to, uh, you might think this is just part of the way in the two particular Minecraft works.
So again, you would not necessarily have information about the kind of, uh, that you are in a simulation.
You would just notice that there is a deeper reality that produces your current reality and it has certain features and this is it.
And now, uh, there is, uh, this other thing, is there something that breaks the apparent causal order of Minecraft, right?
Is there some kind of causal interaction that cannot be explained by the assumption that there are simple, causally closed layer that was not created with some kind of intention.
So this basically functioning in relatively simple, straightforward, mechanical ways, uh, instead of revealing, uh, the, the attention of some kind of creator mind that made it happen in this extremely improbable way.
Right.
Uh, what could be causal interactions that break the nature of our reality?
And, uh, as an example, I, I gave this thing that Elon Musk was prophesied in 1953 by, uh, Werner von Braun, a space scientist.
Uh, there, there is another example, uh, concerning Elon Musk, you know, um, his previous incarnation was not Nikola Tesla.
It was actually one of the best friends of Nikola Tesla.
Uh, John Hayes Hammond Jr., the son of the South African mine, uh, mine owner, right?
Exactly like Elon Musk.
And this guy was not just an inventor like Tesla, who, uh, was clueless, uh, in terms of, um, matters of the economic world and how to build successful companies and so on.
Um, but he was primarily an engineer and entrepreneur and extremely successful entrepreneur who as a young man, uh, went to Edison and, uh, got mentored by him and then made many successful companies and inventions.
And studied, uh, parapsychology and explored all sorts of things that he found interesting and amazing parties.
And he, uh, built himself a castle in New England and lived in that castle, uh, medieval castle, because he thought it's amazing.
And he wrote lots of letters back and forth with Tesla.
And he was one of the few people who understand where Tesla's mind was actually at and the causal structure that Tesla was able to discern in the universe.
And this guy even looks somewhat similar to Elon.
So, uh, maybe it's really just a simulation that exists for Elon's benefit.
Of course, I say all these things tongue and cheek, right?
There are rare coincidences, uh, weird things that happen again.
And, uh, in ways where we think, Oh my God, why does this happen in this way?
But if we find events that are so improbable, uh, but, uh, work reliably, like magical rituals that we perform.
And as a result, we observe a supernova.
Every time we sacrifice the black cat, we get a supernova, right?
This is probably something that cannot be explained by the, uh, by a simple, causally closed layer at the level of quantum mechanics or below.
There is a conspiracy going on, right?
So in some sense, the simulation hypothesis might come down to, uh, possibly it's a conspiracy.
Another one is it could be a simulation that only exists because somebody in the parent universe wanted to study it.
The physics or some kind of physics and everything here is regular and causally close, even though it's a simulation, but people never know.
Right. So we can only find out if it's transparently some kind of conspiracy going on.
This is the problem.
Yeah.
I totally agree with you.
Yeah.
Uh, yeah.
I don't deny the possibility and conspiracy here.
I just want to say, uh, so to, to detect something, uh, behind the curtain, you need to have the information flow, uh, or some leaking, uh, from the, the curtain, uh, from the speak something behind the curtain.
But otherwise you have never, you never have a chance to know it because the, the limit of information or the limit of computation.
That's my, uh, my opinion.
Yeah.
Can I say something about the, uh, the, the metaphor, uh, that the, of the simulation versus, um, you know, what, whatever we had versus versus base reality, or maybe, or maybe like the, the metaphor of the simulation versus the simulator.
And, and this, this point is like, like, if we are living in, uh, what Asia calls, you know, part B, that is, that's a, it's a much more, uh, like powerless, uh, position.
Uh, part A is where things are being created and part B is just like, is just like where the product is.
Right.
And so it is like a, it's like the message of that we're in a simulation is like transmitting this like message of powerlessness, I think, uh, to some degree.
And, and that's interesting because like, um, you know, is, is, is, is the universe a simulator, uh, or, or, or, or is it a simulation from another, from another universe?
Are we, are we in part A and, and somewhere there's a computer that's, that is simulating some other universe?
Um, or are we in part B and we're, and so the mind, so like, also you can think of the mind is like, as something that creates a simulation or something that is a live simulator.
Like, it's like, maybe we have a steady stream of simulations that we're creating.
And, uh, so someone, uh, I think the other day we were, we were all, we're speculating, well, the black hole could be a simulator, like for a holographic galaxy.
And then, and then someone else said, well, basically like the, uh, space itself could be holographic and, and B, it could be a simulator of your, of reality that's happening right now.
It could be, um, we could be, um, uh, the sim, so beyond, so beyond, so beyond, so being in the simulator of, uh, of space or being in the simulator of your brain, uh, by contrast, we have a metaphor for having agency and primacy in the stream of information versus being simulated.
And so I just wanted to point that out because it's interesting to think about.
Yeah, and I thought there were a few really great things to what, um, Acer, uh, your, uh, framework that you outlined.
Uh, there were some things that came to mind.
And one is, of course, at one level, it's possible that, you know, our consciousness is a simulation, uh, where the, the brain is the simulator.
And one of the ways that we're able to, you know, you make an interesting point about, you know, can we ever know, uh, if, uh, what the outer layer is, or the underlying layer is, and, and how would the information, uh, get to, uh, get to us.
So in the case of consciousness being a simulation, well, we know, because, you know, physics and scientific experiments tell us that, you know, the color red is actually electromagnetic waves, even though we can't see them.
We can, you know, figure out that they're there, uh, by, uh, triangulating, uh, uh, physics, you know, the universe kind of against itself, nature against itself.
Um, so there are ways in which we can kind of get at that in that particular case.
The other analogy that came to mind is, uh, these, um, this experiment that was done, I guess, with Intel CPUs recently,
where, uh, threads, uh, uh, threads that were running in user mode were able to access information from other threads that were running in, uh, higher privileged supervisory modes
because, um, they were exploiting, uh, properties of the underlying circuit structure, uh, and able to infer what was going on in adjacent threads,
even though they didn't have direct access to them because, uh, some of the, uh, I guess the timing latencies were affected by what was happening
in adjacent threads. So that's an example where there are things that would normally appear as noise, but once you know what to look for,
you can see that there's actually some information there to be extracted that give you clues into what's happening in the, uh, underlying or outer world.
Yeah, but I guess the, just to, um, um, emphasize on ACES point that if that extra noise is rational, in some sense, that it's consistent with the other physical observables,
then it would be integrated as an extension of a known physics, not as of, uh, external signal.
Wow. So how about this though?
Right, but maybe there's places that are known as Carl as like a contradictory thought experiment.
So, uh, there's some problem called like the intelligence in a box problem or AI in a box problem.
Not sure if this is the exact common name, uh, which is just, you know, okay, so suppose we have an AI, we, we can, we build this, this,
you know, uh, superior intelligence. That's just like, you know, it's so much smarter than us.
And, uh, the question is, can, can we contain it in a box? So, uh, especially if we want to communicate with it,
or if we want to get any information out of it, can we keep it contained?
Cause maybe it could somehow convince us that there was, you know, an asteroid coming and we needed to do something
and only it could save us. And we needed to let it out of the box or something, right?
We didn't say something to convince us of that, uh, just by us basically observing it, observing, you know,
some information that was coming out of it. So if there is, you know, information going from, uh, I forget what your A and B words.
So if there is information going from the simulation to the, you know, outer world, then wouldn't we face the same problem
where we could, you know, cause we are an intelligence in the box in that, in that situation.
And, uh, thus, uh, couldn't we, couldn't we convince them somehow, you know, to let us out of our box, so to speak?
Well, the outer world has complete visibility into what's happening in the inner world, so we don't have to, you know, try to communicate with them.
They know everything that's happening. The question is, would that be interesting to them?
I really wanted to ask Acer if, um, if information closure theory of consciousness, about information closure theory of consciousness,
if, if, um, if it's similar to the concept of, of engrams, uh, that people talk about. Do you know that one?
Um, so, so engrams is this concept that you, that you might have, uh, uh, does any, does any, does any, I don't know if anyone's better at explaining engrams than me, but, but, um, it's like when I read, like, this description of, of, uh, of an information pattern, you know, that was coarse grained, that, that could have, you know, like, for example,
like a coarse grained pattern in, in the brain might be measured with EG as, as, as frequencies, as, as frequency, as a sequence of frequencies, and that might represent, um, like an idea, for example.
And, and then, so maybe there's this idea, uh, called engrams that, uh, that some people, uh, talk about that is, like, you're, maybe your idea is this temple and spatial frequencies.
It's, and I wondered if, go ahead, I'll stop, I'll stop there.
Oh, I, I want to, yeah, sorry, uh, okay, yeah.
This is, by the way, engram spelled E-N, I think, right?
E-N-gram, not N-gram, is that right, Mika?
I, I think so, yeah, I'm referring to, uh, uh, uh, like, like neuroscience, not to Scientology, so.
Yeah, I've heard engram, engram, well, I guess there's also engram in, uh, in natural language processing, about how many word sequences you're looking at, but, um, yeah, because I, I think I've heard engram, E-N-G-R-A-M,
as kind of a, kind of a vague idea, uh, that a memory is sort of encoded as some kind of changes, uh, to some kind of neural substrate, but it always seemed a bit vague.
Totally agree.
Uh, engram is quite, uh, usual, uh, quite often used in the memory studies, especially, uh, animal models, but it's still, uh, quite, uh, vague, uh, ideal, but, um, I, I can say it's something similar.
Uh, so, uh, engram usually is kind of, uh, post-grading of, uh, neural states, so, for example, like population coding, or, like, uh, um, some, some kind of, uh, firing rate, uh, so it's some kind of special temporal, uh, cross-grading, uh, it, it is true,
but whether this, uh, special temporal post-grading can form information closed, uh, uh, process is, is unknown, so, uh, I can say it's related concept to, uh, our theory,
but, uh, of, of, of, of consciousness, but, um, I'm not sure whether the, uh, all those experiment data, uh, they try to find, uh, kind of, um, are directly related to, uh, to some kind of evidence, uh, for our theory, so.
Thank you.
I'm curious, Acer, you never responded.
I, isn't doing, isn't that a fair, uh, kind of contradiction, that, that thought experiment, I mean, doesn't have, kind of, provide a fair contradiction for, uh, the idea that the scope of that, that theorem is sufficient,
to talk about what we're talking about.
Uh, uh, sorry, can, can you elaborate your question again?
I'm so sorry.
Oh, right, if you can really, uh, you know, even, you know, if you can really close off, uh, this, the simulation from receiving any information from B,
while still allowing information to transfer from, uh, uh, from, from the simulation to the outer world.
Yeah, that's the key, key part of this, uh, this, uh, information closure, I think.
So, uh, uh, let's say, uh, A is, uh, uh, major, the, the, how can I say, okay, A is the true reality, let's say that, A, the A process, and B is some kind of, uh, uh, uh, cost-graining or some, some function of A.
So, which means B is totally determined by the dynamic of A.
And in such case, uh, you can intuitively, you imagine, okay, so B is determined by A, then there must be, okay, information flow from A to B, right?
But, uh, if, uh, if you can, uh, if, if the information, uh, flow from A to B can create some, uh, the, the, the, the, sorry, can make the B process, uh, informationally self-content,
uh, content, or, or, or we say informationally closed, which means that, the, the history of, uh, B can totally determine by the current state of B without knowing A.
Then, uh, even B is totally determined by A.
B, uh, when you compute the information flow in such scenario, you can still have, uh, information closed, uh, of B with, uh, with respect to A.
So, it's a little bit like a mathematical magic, but, uh, in, uh, in, uh, in, in, in some cases, this is, uh, uh, this is, this is true.
So, for example, like a quantum, uh, quantum mechanism, uh, we have quantum mechanism here, and we have, uh, like, uh, zero dynamic, um, in our, uh, classic world.
So, yeah, so you're, you're never assuming that, that the, uh, that the outer world, basically, that A, uh, needs, uh, because, right, it's, it's not interesting to simulate a world unless you can observe it, observe the simulation, right?
So, there, there is information, like, we can assume information's traveling from the, uh, simulation to the, uh, to the outer world.
So, from, uh, uh, uh, B to A.
Ah, okay, okay.
That's, uh, that's a good point.
So, you, this is, uh, not symmetrical.
So, which means, uh, B can be blind to A, but A can know everything about B.
It's totally fine.
So, you can have full information from B to A, and, but B is still blind to A.
But, so, does that, wouldn't that then say that you could contain this, you know, intelligence and, like, basically get information out of it, and, uh, without, you know, risking it, it convincing you to basically let it out of its box?
Uh, I, uh, sorry, I don't understand.
Sorry, you, I, like, I, okay, so, like, meaning that basically, so, what, what this, what this is basically saying that is, is, it's picturing a simulation, or picturing is, somehow this is picturing a situation where, uh, B doesn't, where, sorry, A doesn't react to the information that it gets out of B in some way that, that will change their, their relationship, basically.
Well, why, why would A get information from B?
A already knows everything about B.
Oh, well, why would you ever simulate, then, if you don't care to observe the simulation?
You're saying, in order to run a simulation where it's, B is, uh, able to respond to A, and A is able to articulate what B is thinking, and there's a, it's a circular.
So, there, there are, there are two things, there are two, there are two problems going on here.
A might, A might fully know the state of B, but it might not know where B is going to go.
It's just like the whole thing problem, it might have to run B to find out where B is going to end up, but it's still going to know the current state of B.
Okay, I see.
Okay, I see.
I did want to give, uh, Lalitha and Chris a chance to talk, because they've been in the room for a very long time and, and haven't had a chance to speak.
I'm just, uh, listening in.
I had a couple of thoughts earlier, but that was way before, uh, and it wouldn't, I don't want to interrupt this flow, but I'm listening in.
Oh, okay, thanks.
Go ahead, Andrew.
Yes, same here, by the way, I'm, I'm just listening.
I, I had a, a question that would be a total tangent.
I'm probably going to have to go to bed before I would even ask it, so I'm just listening.
This is really, really interesting.
Thank you.
So one thing, if I can, uh, go, one thing, one thing I want to highlight, though, is I wonder if, uh, evidence of, uh, its existence through things that would be seen normally as noise in these worlds, uh, you know, things like, uh, other things that, you know, fall within Heisenberg's uncertainty principle, where, uh, we would sort of just say, well, it's random, and it's just going to, uh, you know, form to some probability distribution, but, you know, events happen or they don't happen, and there's actually information.
If an event happens or, or it doesn't happen, those events random, and say that's a very high information content event, but maybe they're not random, they seem random in our world, and get some evidence about it.
And then there might be some physics or something that we can observe or something outside of, uh, I think he's saying that, that it's like, so the people in out, the people outside our simulation, like the simulators, they're, they're, they can, they can even affect, but they could be affecting it in a way,
which we basically can't tell, uh, between the way that they're changing things, and, and the normal, like, distribution, that it's basically hidden from us, like, because they, they just affect it in, in a, in a kind of slight and specific way.
Like, that's what the example I'm thinking of is.
As long as, uh, the signal is, has a pattern to it, then we would have a fundamental ambiguity as to whether this is a yet new rule about nature, or some kind of a meaningful signal.
It might be that we could never decode the signal, we might just have...
Paul, like, if we had an intention for that to be the outcome of the experiment, would that affect the experiment?
If we could predict it, maybe.
If we could get predictive power over it, but then, then age universe is now...
Are you ready yet?
Right, um, so, yeah, so, I, I had, I, I spoke about this idea earlier of, of, of, uh, basically simulating a solar system, uh, this is something people have done, to try to, um, figure out if, if our predictions of how physics work at the solar system level are actually true, um, to try to fill in the gaps, like, beyond what we can observe, um, and so the idea was that, like, you know, I guess, I guess, you know, that the,
there's a good argument from, I don't, I don't know the argument that well, but it's, it's like, uh, and I'm probably mispronouncing his name, but it's like, you know, like this, the, the Godell's, uh, incompleteness theorem, like this idea that if you're in, inside, uh, a closed system,
um, then there's a fundamental limitation on what you can know about the system that is, that is outside, uh, your system.
Um, and, but, but, but the, but what I said is that maybe there's a, maybe there's a way around that by, like, if we could, in this, I guess, like, if we're going back to Acer's, um, analogies, like, part A and part B and part C, like, if we're, if we can, if we can, if we can, basically, if we're in part B and we can simulate our own reality,
or, or, if we're in part A or part B or part B and, uh, or part C, I meant to say, if we can simulate what it takes to make our own reality, um, then we could, like, just, like, simulating the solar system, then we could test, um, that simulation to see how accurate it is and, and what might be required in order to create it.
And, and, and we could also try, like, various, like, if the simulation was created on x86 hardware versus created on, on, um, uh, some other chipset, like, maybe there is the, uh, maybe there, there would be some sort of subtle difference or some sort of detectable difference between the two different chipsets that would result in, uh, some phenomenon that we could test for.
Um, and so maybe we could infer, um, by, by simulating our own simulation, uh, some things about the simulator, or, or maybe, yeah, or, that's, that's the idea.
It's, like, maybe if our models are, are good enough, we could, we could create testable predictions that might allow us to make inferences about what could be simulating this reality.
I'll stop there, let people respond.
And, and, and, and I, I kind of wonder, um, if it's not appropriate to, to sort of, um, ask the question how some of the, the mathematicians here, or, or anyone else would sort of explain the three-body problem and how, if we, if we can't answer sort of, sort of basic fundamental questions like that, how, how can we, how can we sort of ask more sophisticated questions?
I'm going to give it about 20 more minutes here, because it's 420 in the morning here on the East Coast.
And, um, so I think everybody should just kind of go through, we have how many people on the stage?
So, I'd like to hear from everybody what you got from this conversation, because it, it is an open question.
I'm not saying we are living in a simulation.
I'm saying, are we, um, to, to open up the conversation, to come to some, maybe some conclusions within our, within our own mind on how to, uh, extra, what to extrapolate from this, to, to move on and, and maybe do some different, uh, have it affect our lives in a different way.
Sorry, sorry, I'm very tired, um, and maybe do some experiments that would move us forward and get us closer to an answer, um, of why we are here.
And that was the main reason for me to create the room.
Um, so, uh, forever, what would you like to say about it?
Sure.
So, um, generally I avoid the simulation theory question, uh, mostly because, uh, of the, oftentimes the inability to find the empirical evidence either way to answer the questions.
Um, and so I came tonight, um, to support Amy and also to, uh, uh, physicists, mathematicians, uh, neuroscientists, computer scientists all together to kind of, um, work on, on, have this conversation.
And for me, um, what I kind of find most relevant is, is to talk about it in the ways that could be, um, empirically, um, validated one way or the other.
And so asking everyone tonight, you know, their strongest, um, theories for or against, uh, really for me was very interesting to hear.
I also really enjoyed the different ways that people considered the simulation problem, um, especially, of course, with, uh, Yoshi's contributions, uh, with respect to basically the modeling of the self, uh, I found very fascinating.
So, thanks, everyone.
Micah?
Um, I, um, so the question was, what did, what did we get out tonight?
I, uh, you know, I, I really am, am grateful just to, uh, get a chance to, to talk with all of these amazing speakers that you brought together, Amy.
Um, you know, definitely, uh, I, I definitely had another, uh, another question, uh, for Acer that, uh, I'm glad I got to ask.
And, and, uh, always great to hear from Ramsey and, and many, many, there's many, many more people who came here tonight that, that were fun to, uh, talk with.
Um, also, I, I just, uh, uh, brought up, uh, Cecile, a good friend of mine, to the stage, uh, to, sort of, I guess we're, we're closing out now, but I'd love to also hear what, uh, her, her latest thoughts on, on the simulation are.
I think she just got here, though, so.
Sure.
Do you want to share?
I was here earlier to listen for a few minutes, uh, about your discussion, and it was so interesting.
And, uh, yeah, I would like to echo the, since you're closing up soon, I'd like to echo what Forever said, that, uh, it's very nice to do this discussion at the point of view, at the intersection of different disciplines, like physics, math, and neuroscience, and even AI, um, to look at this, uh, this topic, uh, with, uh,
in an empirical way so I hope you have more talks about this in the future and I would like to
participate and give my opinion then so thank you and thanks for this great space how about you Carl
you were awesome so this is a tough topic and I enjoyed this conversation thoroughly not so much
in addition to the topic itself but also the discussing the topic with various speakers
because the topic is so complicated we actually ended up discussing a lot about one instance of
the situation which was to imagine that we live in a space called S for simulation and then there's
a space called G for whatever and then the G contains S and then the question was what kind
of intelligent things can we do to see if there's a bigger world called G outside of the space that
we live in S and the conclusion that I got was that unless the signal that's coming from G turns out to
be very idiosyncratic and kind of crazy we won't be able to distinguish it from the natural laws what
we perceive as the regular patterns that exists inside S and that's what I got out of here do you
want to talk he's sleeping Ramsey it's on you baby yeah this has been an interesting conversation
intuition about the universe being a simulation I think there are many things that kind of like
point to it being plausible and um one of the things that I alluded to earlier was uh Conway's
game of life simple agents to simple rules and you know they evolved into like these highly complex
agents and you know kind of I I see some sort of analogous process happening in the universe you know
would love to to um say that while Ramsey was talking I I just talking about basically like you know
what what if there is okay so like if we're in the simulation if there is another universe that's
observing us the thing is like if they're observing us that like like the observer effect would mean
right would tell us that uh or basically the fit like the idea is that that if they're observing us
then then they become part of this reality in a sense and now there's a feedback loop because
the very act of observing like like uh causes this sort of like um you know interaction this like
sort of like you know we become part of what we observe and and vice versa what we observe becomes
part of us and uh so in that sense there would be sort of like maybe a feed if there's another reality
there'd be like a feedback loop between the two realities and and that would be a connection
between the two realities and and maybe some maybe a way to detect uh to test for whether there's
there's something outside of this the uh reality that we know that's observing us um would be uh
to sort of uh think along those lines of how of how we would test whether something has become
entangled uh with uh uh whether whether something that is as that is being observed has become
entangled with with an observer and i don't know how to do that yet but it's just an idea
micah i wish uh joe rogan was on stage so uh he could tell you to smoke dmt
wait you guys aren't on dmt because i am okay next
danish oh yeah i mean from my perspective i didn't know too much about singularity
or the simulation theory uh before coming into the room but i really enjoy just being able to speak to
and listen to so many uh intelligent people and get their perspective and uh just uh kind of really
appreciate being able to come up on stage daniel oh thank you so much yeah no just uh what do i take
away from this that that i'm grateful that there are more questions and answers and um and and i
think you need to do a part three potentially next week is going to be serial killers and uh yeah
i will eventually hey sir thank you for having me and yeah this is really uh fantastic conversations
and i didn't really uh think about uh simulation uh theory before quite seriously and but yeah today
is really like um inspiring inspiring me a lot so yeah so i rethink about the information theory in
play in some part of this uh story also uh some people mentioned the limit of computation that's
also quite a good way to approach this uh topic and and also uh i think this is deeply linked to
uh philosophy of science and yeah that's really inspiring so yeah thank you for having me here
and thank you so much aser sean
you didn't get a chance to talk sean i didn't get a chance to talk i have a lot of thoughts
uh please share them we're here okay meta-theoretical thoughts those of you who know me and i think a lot
of you do know that i have an obsession which is to bring about we think about our minds and our
relationship to reality um and so my let me kind of throw a meta-theoretical cat among the pigeons
i'm not interested in whether we're living in a simulation i'm interested in why it is so engaging
for us to think about questions like are we living in a simulation or um to think about establishing
colonies on mars um uh or to think about let's say don hoffman's conscious realism theory um
rather than thinking about how we might deal with the kind of mundane painful and maybe seemingly
impossible to change um uh uh uh reality of our own existence the institutions that surround us
the future that we contemplate when we think about you know climate change or all those things
like why do we want to escape and i kind of think that i mean i'm not saying it's good or it's bad
i'm rather saying how can we look deeper into ourselves and detect the reasons why we might choose
to escape rather than to confront um uh and uh you know will that lead us closer to um uh uh uh making choices that in the fullness of time later in our lives we end up being happier with
and i love that thank you lolita hi me thank you um i learned a lot and um there were many things that
went over my head i did not understand but i'm grateful to be here um i have one thought though because i know
this is uh this is part two i don't know whether i missed the part one or i've not been here for the whole
multiple uh sessions but um the one thing that i kept thinking was perhaps uh uh the subject of psychedelics
would psychedelics um be the way to actually create a tear in the simulation as a bit you know if
if this medicine the way to break out of it would that be like a psychedelic experience
i don't know maybe i'll do next week on ayahuasca
thank you again hi chris it's funny i actually have a good friend who's an ayahuasca
that keeps trying to bring me down to south america to go on an ayahuasca i'm in let's go
not not gonna happen for me but um but yeah very funny you say that uh so i've been thinking that
we've that we live in a simulation since probably the mid to late 90s uh and uh and i i but very
similar to sean i think it's an interesting conversation but i kind of don't really care
it becomes more of sort of like a spiritual or philosophical um almost more like semantics of
eastern concepts like reincarnation and the way that i've i've always looked at and this is the
question i was going to ask is um and that's why i didn't want to ask it because i didn't want to
get off of the a b uh discussion that acer was driving i thought it was a really interesting one
and i was trying to absorb that again much of this is way over my head i'm not a mathematician or
physicist um but the philosophy on this is what's interesting to me the question that i i wanted to
try to understand is if we are in fact living in a simulation is there a way for us to know if we are
in fact uh part of the simulation meaning artificial intelligence or are we in fact sentient beings
gaming inside of the system all uh like video game players uh that when the game dies they come back
into base reality um and that's more the way that i think about this being a simulation is that this is
just one of many different simulations or games if you want to think of it that way um and we can't
really come we exist in this moment so we think in these terms but maybe when this simulation ends for
us we die we go into the next one and it's like being uh uh just sitting in a vacuum in a meditative
stage for what would be like 10 000 years and from each one of these simulations we gain this karmic
knowledge and that karmic knowledge is is sort of what we take as take away as a karmic being
that's more of the interesting uh or excuse me uh what it is inherent in that because we don't know
so really the question is um and and i think that's really the interesting like like it's an
interesting discussion but like really the important thing is like okay it doesn't matter and the reason
that i care if we're artificial it doesn't really absorb that that's sort of the one meditative state
of like okay well i'm just going to observe the side of this room i can take yes i can take that on
um so uh so i also i wanted to respond to both uh to both uh people who are speaking um let's see
that's that's chris and lalitha right um so um i think that uh most of the simulation dialogue
is it's it's really interesting but it's kind of unfortunate that they don't we're not really like
when when most people talk about the simulation there's not like this consciousness there's not
like a conscious awareness of of the metaphors that are being used and what they mean just as
metaphors and because when you talk about being inside a simulation that could apply to like the
literal like the universe is a literal simulation inside a computer program and that's like how most
of the dialogues go but that same exact dialogue could be a dialogue about being a character in a
simulation that your own brain is creating as a rendering of reality and and i think it just flies
over people's heads that this dialogue has as as metaphors has metaphors in it that could apply to
to multiple different things and and and um so i just i like that there's some sort of dialogue but
there's but they're missing other there's like a missing the conversations miss these other layers and
so whether we're in a simulation or not in a simulation that is that um that metaphor uh is like
being inside simulation is like being inside something that is inside something else
um and i just want to point out that we're not really inside anything we're not really inside the
universe uh in particular so like we it's like you'd have to like the universe is just one thing and
that one thing includes everything and so all all like all the stars and all the people and all the
atoms are the universe so there's nothing inside the universe and there's so we're not inside the
universe we're just we just are the universe we're just a part of the universe but we're but like
um but like without our minds to like divide up reality into chunks there would be no uh no
distinction between yourself and the universe and so the thing is like if if this universe is inside
a simulation uh and that is the real universe is like a thing that is inside something that's inside
something else without our minds you know to make the distinction between these different things it's
all still one thing we are the simulation inside the simulator right and we're all we're one with that
no i'm just saying that the microcosm is the macrocosm not that that might that the macrocosm can
be contained within the microcosm but i mean i guess you could have a representation of the macrocosm
inside the microcosm but that would be just a representation of it um but um but i'm also
saying like that that there's no like beyond that outside our mind there's no separate there's no way to
separate ourselves from uh the simulation and no way to separate this simulation from the other reality
that's simulating and um and that basically going back to your question is that you know choice
being a matter of agency um it's not clear like so if agency is a matter of the conscious being of the
conscious mind being part of the process of decision making right like so the so like imagine if you
didn't have a conscious mind would you question whether or not you had agency or not i mean what i'm saying
it's like it's if someone else if someone else was making decisions like you have to have a conscious
mind in order to consider this but if someone else is making decisions the same decisions without a
conscious mind like like um then you just say okay well that's just the physics of how their brain works
if they're not conscious then then how could they be making decisions it's just that it's just a
physical process right but because there's like a conscious component we say oh well well maybe there's
something that is non that it's that's like i mean at the point that you say the words maybe there's
something non-physical well you then you have to like say oh wait a second no actually if we have a
choice it has to be physical it's not non-physical right um and i mean i'll allow other people to
disagree in a second if they want to but what i think is that there's not necessarily any reason
why we would have more agency outside of the simulation than the amount of agency that we have
inside the simulation and um so whether you are uh you know a firm believer that you that you have
agency right now um it's not clear that you would have more or less agency whether you would be or
or would not be in a simulation i'm not sure why that would make any why that has to require more or
less agency i mean um but i think that fundamentally like you're the agency that you have now
uh as as the mind is being as a conscious process it's just part of a physical process uh in which you
as the uh the in which in which your mind is is sort of recognizing that choices are coming from
uh your thoughts after you consider the possible futures that you're facing and and but that is
that is um that kind of agency is not separate from the laws of physics and not separate from the
universe itself and um so that's so so the way i think of it is like i sort of like i don't see a
conflict between having choice and not having choice it's just sort of like the realization that
when there is no real you outside of your mind dividing things in the chunks you are the universe
making choices the organism is making the choices in oneness with the universe to progress in the
future to help people so thank you so much uh cecile yeah i um earlier i dropped by that's very
interesting and in really cecile about so with yosha um on his theory of simulation so um yeah if you
guys want to come back next week i'll do a part three michael what do you think forever are you
gonna bail me out in the beginning when my phone doesn't work oh okay i just wanted to say thank
you amy i as far as like i don't know if i'll have anything new to say i think i may have used up all
of my ideas forever but i don't know you're all fabulous close the room to see you next week maybe
we'll we'll discuss something that is exciting to you guys all right good night guys thank you
