=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0319y Microtubules Consciousness Recursion
First recorded: 2021-04-07T17:12:14.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/b9e1a715-3c53-4b86-b479-682caf240e08
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
But having some discussions about them early on is kind of important when you start to think about how these entities interact with each other.
So that's when it gets a little bit interesting.
So this is something that I've been thinking about and wanted to bring up, is that people keep coming into the groups and they start sharing the panpsychist viewpoint, and I've debated that so many times.
And sometimes I just don't have the energy for it, but I guess it still needs to be discussed.
And it's kind of like, I think that the basic, the biggest reason it can't move forward is that it sort of violates information theory.
You can't have, in order to have consciousness, that means that you're observing, there's an observer who's observing, right?
And you're observing something.
And that means that, and like, if you're observing music, then, then what's necessary to observe music, like someone could hand you a record and you're not going to hear sound.
Someone could hand you a CD, CD-ROM, just like without the player, and you're not going to hear sound, right?
You have to have a decoder in order to turn the bumps on the record or the dots on the CD-ROM into, into sound.
And it's the same thing with your brain, like there's no observation if there's, unless there's a decoder.
There's, information has no meaning unless it's, unless it's decoded.
So it has to be encoded and decoded.
And that means that like, if there's no observation happening because there's no, because there's no decoder, then there can't be any consciousness.
And like, so like, there can't be any consciousness in a rock because there's no observation happening.
And if, if, if, if there's no observation happening because there's no decoder in the rock.
We can see that there's no decoder in the rock.
Whereas like, in the human brain, people are, are working, there's no, there's no, there's no, um, in my mind, the, the, the, there's no, uh, I guess the way I phrased it was there's,
the idea that the, that the human brain is, uh, computationally, uh, uh, interpreting the incoming signals from the environment in order to process them and, and decode them and, and, uh, and perceive them is not a controversial idea.
It's, there's, this is like, this is what most neuroscientists and I think most people, most educated people believe.
Um, and yeah, so, and for, it's so, yeah, I'll stop there.
Yeah, great.
I like the way you're talking, thinking, and I would love to actually make a bridge between what you're saying right now and what Ben was, uh, saying earlier about, uh, the, the, the, the relation to, uh, predicting the cosmos.
Um, um, not the right word, but, you know, what he was referring to earlier with, uh, um, the, so first of all, I am actually talking with, with, uh, philosophers,
contemporary philosophers, uh, about, uh, reintroducing parts of, uh, panpsychism, but not all.
And the, the essence there is that, um, we, we learn to, um, understand in a different way.
First of all, the sort of, first, let me refer back to a good reason why we actually would think that consciousness is prior to, um, to matter.
Um, and, and I think that the, the, the way we are looking at it at the moment is, uh, explaining some things like the fine tune problems and some of, uh, and giving an alternative to the whole idea of the multiverse.
Um, um, cause that, that, that, that, I mean, you, the thing I'm doing as an applied science, I want to have it grounded in the world and really fully emerged into the world.
Um, and, and, and like I said, I've always rejected any of this spiritual stuff and, uh, uh, uh, panpsychic stuff until my, the world itself showed me that the research I was doing on the, was exactly that.
It showed me that there's another way, let me do that metaphor.
You can think about it in a different way.
Um, think about a fake, vacuum, right?
Um, now on, on this planet, we actually only have artificial vacuum, but we have it everywhere.
We use it for our combustion engines to, to make a lot of, uh, work for us.
So, so we're using it everywhere, but it's fabricated in an artificial, um, so in an atmosphere, in a, your mic is breaking up a lot.
Oh, so let me, maybe it's, the connection is this better?
I hope this will be better.
Difficult to know without a statistically significant sound for me, so keep going.
Okay.
So what I'm trying to say is that, um, think about your brain, uh, as, as a container to, to keep, uh, an electrical storm, uh, together.
If I would, um, uh, take atmosphere into space, uh, without a container, it would disperse, it wouldn't exist at all.
So in my view, the, the, the stones and the, the plant, uh, many of those material stuff around us, um, is in that kind of sense, not, uh, linked to consciousness.
Um, consciousness is to me like this whirlpool of electrical lightning, let's say.
Uh, but that can actually exist outside the brain as well.
And, um, if I link it to much larger scale, like, um, creating the conditions to, uh, uh, get to the fine tuning structure where life can emerge.
Um, that's a very different, uh, balance game.
So, so it is Panteism, but it's not Panteism.
And, um, something that Ben said about what if all the different, uh, uh, consciousnesses are emerging at the same time.
That's exactly the thing that we are at the moment working on with the concept of what is called, uh, tribopoesis.
So you have autopoesis, which is basically the system creating itself.
But then you have, like, a little bit of a problem, like, where the hell is this coming from?
Um, well, with tribopoesis, uh, it, it is actually, um, uh, more in line with the, um, also the, the, the, the fact that we are multicellular creatures.
So, like, a multicellular creature has at one level, um, cells that can autonomous, uh, reproduce and do whatever they want.
But on a very, on an aggregated level, there is an influence because if I stop eating, I will, uh, uh, eat my, my muscles to keep my brains alive.
So there is a higher order at play.
Um, and, and the same way are, we are looking now at this concept of tribopoesis.
And what I'm trying to do, like, in the research on the origin of life is look how convection cells, um, they, they always emerge out of the fields that gets far from equilibrium.
But then they emerge together.
It's not one convection cells.
It's a collective of convection cells.
And you can only understand that because there is, like, this, uh, feedback structure that will improve the flow.
And many of the, the things I'm, I'm learning and understanding about consciousness is exactly this.
I mean, you can wake up in the morning and you can, you can be in a state like, where the hell am I?
So you're not really consciousness, conscious of the, the things that, that the, well, your brain is perfectly functional, but then the flow gets a little bit going and then you, oh yeah, you're right.
And then you're back into it.
And there's similar kind of, um, um, well, uh, exercise you can do.
Like, um, if you, if you dream, you can wake up and be in a mindset of a lot of work and forget your dream right away.
But sometimes you can actually try to get back to the dream by going and standing in the feeling you had when you were dreaming.
And then where you stand in the feeling of that dream, suddenly all the memory comes back in.
So in that way that there's this whole link and there's a strong link with things that we see in Zen, Buddhism and so on, where, where you go via meditation into a different kind of awareness.
So there are many of, well, there's still a lot of mystery around all of that, right?
But we try by not being too concrete, like many of the examples you gave, Mikhail, is for me too concrete.
If you try to be a little bit more abstract, then things may actually, uh, get explained by, uh, first seeing how, like, uh, a cybernetic world can actually start changing the physical world.
And how that's kind of a bootstrapping relation.
And Mikhail and Dal speaking.
And by the way, I probably, uh, need to go for a meeting in, in a few minutes.
Okay, um, I can, I can respond to that.
So, so it sounds like you're, you're, uh, I think, I guess let's try to paraphrase, um, what you're saying.
Something about consciousness being just the electrical activity, uh, or just the electromagnetic activity, um, and, and the brain just being a container for that activity to keep it together.
But, um, but, but maybe, but maybe you think that if, if that electric, if that electrical activity could occur in, in a different kind of container, like, uh, maybe inside the, the storm of Jupiter, then there could be consciousness there, right?
Something like, it doesn't have to be in the, in the brain.
It could reformulate somewhere else.
It's not necessarily, uh, connected to the brain.
The brain is serving it.
It's happening in our culture.
What?
It's already happening in our culture.
You cannot disconnect your own consciousness from the language you speak and the culture you're living.
So you don't even need to go to, uh, so far away.
Okay.
Um.
So on, so on the, so on the topic of, on the topic of neuroscience though, I mean, I, I guess, I guess what I want to share is what I think is the missing, missing piece here, um, in, in, uh, that, uh, I, I like the painting, but I think there's one missing piece and I wanted to share it.
It's that, um, you know, from, from neuroscience, um, I think that, um, there's a, well, okay, so there's a, there's like a ton of examples that, and I have to, I have to kind of piece it together.
I know you may not have enough time, but, so what, so one example is that, um, you know, they, they do like the, uh, the, the split brain, the split brain, brain patients, uh, if that, um, the famous, uh, gosh, the scientists, uh, afraid.
Okay, so, but anyway, the, the idea was that every time you cut in, if you, if you do like a major incision that, that, you know, cuts across the corpus callosum or just divides the brain in half or a major surgery or if there's a major injury and, you know, like a brain surgery, like, they, they, we see personality changes, people's personality changes.
And so that, that, that, that's like the, um, that's the first sign that the, the brain tissue is directly causing the electrical pattern.
If, if the soul, if the soul was the electrical pattern, uh, and it was, and the brain tissue was just a container, then, then how is changing the brain tissue changing that, uh, like, changing that person's personality?
That's, that's one, that's one big thing that people have to juggle with.
Um, yeah, so, I want to respond to that, thanks, because it makes it a lot more concrete.
So, uh, the way I look at, uh, uh, the mind, brain, the, the, so, cautious as, it's like a whirlpool, right?
So, it's a feedback mechanism keeping itself in a kind of, uh, called, artificial construct.
So, what happens if you cut the, the, the brain is you get two whirlpools.
And that's exactly what we see if we, you can do experiments with, with, with them and, and, uh, have the, the left brain and the right brain, uh, ask them different questions and actually capture how they have the different answers to that.
Like, you, you let them write and you let them say something and you ask them a question and you see that what's been written and what's been said is different.
So, this kind of stuff really fits perfectly with what we call the tribal poesies.
So, it's, it's the whole idea that everything you see around you, um, can actually be understood from a process, uh, perspective.
Everything is feedback structures creating, um, uh, create, yeah, create feedback.
Um, okay, well, so there's another, there's, there's some other problems with that.
And, and, um, so like, but what's, what's really interesting, I think, and it is a missing piece is how much the brain tissue is involved in generating that electrical storm.
And, uh, and, and, and, like, you know, every time, every time a neuron fires or a neural circuit fires, um, you know, a micro, a micro column, uh, of activity, uh, uh, spikes, uh, uh, a column or a region spikes, uh, you have one region and then another.
Like, there's, there's, there's, there's, you have dipoles, uh, firing off, um.
I, I, I hear you clearly. Do, do, do you know the, the global workspace hypothesis?
Yeah, I do, but I have issues with that, too. I have my own hypothesis.
The reason I'm mentioning it is because I've noticed that, so that's the first time I noticed that the system of creation, so the feedback system I was working with in artificial intelligence, was popping up again.
So I was wondering, like, how come that this neuroscience is actually explaining something that I'm from artificial intelligence, totally disconnected from that research, also had as a system.
So that's one of the first times, so, and you can go a little bit deeper how, like, having this four different kind of leverages can actually create a feedback on creation.
And if you understand how you can create that feedback on creation, you can actually see how even cultures are consciousness and aware as a feedback structure like that, but just on a way slower rate.
So, like, speeding up plants and see then how plants behave like animals.
It's a little bit the same, so there is, like, as well, but it's moving so slow, it's called zeitgeist.
So, but the thing that you can see is if you have a little system of creation, you will get more aware, and you can, so it's already hard-coded in our brains, but our actions can actually also improve that kind of flow.
I'm Mixlandon speaking. I hope it helps.
So, okay, look, so I still think the idea that you're saying violates information theory, which was the final part of what I was going to say,
because, you know, not only are neurons generating this electrical storm, but the neurons themselves are the ones that are decoding the information in the brain.
And that includes any result of this electrical storm, that the electrical storm might be altering the positions of electrons, which change the firing rate and change the brain activity patterns.
But the only way for information to be detected or for an observation to happen is because the neurons are making that observation.
The brain activity itself doesn't have decoders, and therefore it has no sense of information, and it's not conscious. It's not an observer.
That's because you believe that information is in your brain.
No, no, no, that's because I believe that information has to be, has to have, that an observer has to have a decoder for an observation to happen, otherwise information has no meaning.
That's the embodiment. But the thing is that, that embodiment can be extremely simplified to four forces interacting on each other.
I don't know if we're going to solve this debate tonight, if you have to leave in a minute, because this requires some, maybe another hour of argument.
But maybe you come back another time, and we'll talk to you.
I would love to do that, by the way. I'm really, and I really like the way you're thinking, and the fact that you're critical, because if the way, because if you,
that kind of critical response allows to create a language, to express the things that we can see from, like, more mathematical perspective.
But, like, yeah, if you want to have, like, some idea of what that four forces creating the system of creation looks like,
the most easiest case I can see the round bay is sailing against the wind.
In the case of sailing against the wind, you are also using four forces to actually create a very strange, well, or paradoxical movement.
But there is, like, a cost, and the cost relates to a dispersion you do in the medium, the fluid, where you can do the sailing in.
And the thing with the sailing against the wind, the four forces, is that there is no constructive knowledge to build on top of.
So if you then start doing that with things like machine learning, you can actually see how you can create an evolution of creativity.
But, yeah, you're right.
Actually, my date is not yet here, so I keep going until I have.
So I haven't heard of this thing called the four forces system of creation.
I looked it up, and are you talking about the four basic forces of physics, like gravitational force, electromagnetic force, nuclear force, and strong nuclear force?
I'll send you the link of my, because the whole idea is that the four forces always work on workspace, but the workspace is embodied in, well, there's a system that tries to create, use the workspace, but there's also an environment that has influence on that workspace.
In case of sailing against the wind, the four forces are like this, you have the first, it's called lift and drag.
So those are the forces on the sail, and what happens if you combine those two, well, if you play with those two forces, you can actually create a force that has like a 90 degree angle against the wind, but you are not yet against the wind.
So it seems impossible to sail against the wind.
So what actually happens is that you are in a medium, your boat is in the water, and there's like this keel in the boat that makes the boat go only in one direction, basically.
So it's easy to go back and forth, but it's hard to go sideways.
That's what you have with a boat.
That's why you turn a boat if you want to go in a different direction.
So what you do is you position the boat in such a way that the lift force, like this 90 degree angle against the wind, has maximum effect on the viscosity of the water.
And the viscosity of the water will actually be a reaction force.
And so that's the cost you pay to actually move across the 90 degree angle.
And then you cannot sail straight against the wind.
What you need to do is like zigzag all the time.
So if you translate all that kind of forces to how we learn, you actually get to understanding how there's a feedback structure on learning that allows us to create novelty.
So creating something fundamentally that doesn't exist yet in your existing knowledge.
But I'll send you the link to the PhD so you can actually see the forces, see how it works,
and how I make the link with this and cognition.
Okay, but I just want to say that I'm not hearing like a counter-argument to what I'm saying.
And I've had further thought.
So the argument was that electromagnetism, the electromagnetism in the brain, the electrical storm, has no way to decode information that the neurons are passing to it.
It would, and I think it would, like, if you're combining, you know, information together, that it might, yeah, it doesn't, like, I don't under, like, so I'm, so yeah, so if you look up information theory and decoding, like, that is just, that's essential for an observation to happen is, is that the information that's received has to be decoded.
For, in order to be transmitted, it has to be encoded.
And if you don't have a physical mechanism to, to, to...
Yeah, I follow you.
But they do make one big mistake.
And that mistake relates to the concept we know in cybernetics as bootstrapping.
And the best example I can give is, is called the bootstrapping compiler, where you actually create a non-existing compiler in a language that doesn't, is decoded yet.
But you'd make a trick, what you will do is, instead of creating a compiler, you create an interpreter in that language.
So that's a virtual space, but in that virtual space, you actually give the, the program itself as, as inputs.
And what it will do by the recursive structure, it will actually create a compiler in a programming language.
You never wrote one code, line of coding, because it's bootstrapping itself through itself.
So it's, it's like the snake eating itself.
If you start playing with that idea that if you can create a virtual space that can decode, that then can actually create the code to, to run itself, you actually solve the problem.
And that, that's like, that's why I'm referring to the word pool as, I mean, first the fluid is just going in any direction, but as soon as you create that, that feedback structure, so you can be, start playing with that.
And if you go to information, to programming, that playing with recursion is something we do all the time, but it's pretty ill understood outside of the domain of programming modeling.
So the thing that I, that you need to do then is use a lot of the programming modeling techniques to understand how we can understand cognition.
So I know it's, it, it, it requires quite interdisciplinary approach and that's, that's the biggest challenge, I guess.
Oh, okay.
So you're, so you're, you're, you're saying that the, that the, that the topology of, of the ionic activity in the brain is like a whirlpool that is, is, is, it's, you're suggesting that somehow it's gathering information and transmitting information and understanding information?
There's an advanced case in, so if, if you look up convection cells, you will see that convection cells.
So that there is actually a Nobel prize in chemistry in 1977 given to it because it's, it was breakthrough science.
But it's, but it's the, the thing that you see, so the convection cells show you how a system far from equilibrium can actually start self-organizing.
So that's, that's one aspect, but the convection cells itself doesn't yet tell you how it's coding.
There has been an advanced experiment where they start heating the sides of those convection cells.
And what happened is depending on a certain temperature, you actually get a different pattern.
And you see clearly, purely from topology, how information is coded in flow.
So, and that can easily happen in your brain as well, the, the, the, how then, um, that kind of, uh, patterns starts, uh, changing the world is yet another bootstrap.
But if you, if you start understanding how that processing of bootstrapping is working, so A creates B, but B is not good.
It's, it's artificial and temporal, but the temporal and artificial thing like a scaffold is used to create something structural.
And then when the structural thing exists, the scaffold can go away again.
And that's exactly the idea of, of a scaffold, right?
Um, sorry, go ahead.
No, I'm sorry.
I'll pause.
I need to take a break.
You go ahead and respond first.
I just wanted to bring a couple of things back down to it.
So as much as I like thinking about the fate of the universe and stuff, I also like to make sure I can keep this shit real.
So when you talk about convection cells, um, of course in everybody's house right now, you've probably got some double glazing.
So there's a perfect example about that, the type of convection cell you're talking about, literally, an example would be double glazing and why you need the correct gap between the panes of glass.
If it's too small, um, then you've just not got enough, you've just not got enough depth of air to be, to be a depth of an insulator.
And then when the gap between the glass gets too big, you start to get these convection cells set up, um, they emerge in the, in the space and then, then they create a transport mechanism from heat from the cold outer pain off the other way from the hot inner pain to the outer pain, um, through conduction and convection.
Is that, I mean, that's a perfect example of something that's actually in people's homes, right?
That's a nice one.
I didn't know that one, but yes, that those are also convection cells.
But you are talking now about convection cells of air, right?
Yes.
If you go to the original experiment, because you try to make it as visible as possible, they use oil.
And so heat, heating up the oil actually leads to this honey cube grit of, of cells, uh, transporting heat from the bottom to the top.
So the, the, the, the, the glass is, is a very good example.
Thanks for that, Ben.
Yeah, you can see it in there just with a puff of smoke.
So, uh, so that's that.
And then there was another thing that, uh, Mike had just said that really made me think of another example where we can really simply bring it back down to earth.
Mike, just remind me what you said at the end of what you said, and it'll spark the recall of that.
What's the last thing Mike has said?
Um, I was thinking, I was thinking about how, so I was thinking about how, um, you know, the brain is a, is a whirlpool of activity, um, that was, uh, well, I asked if it was gathering and then transmitting, uh, patterns, um, but, but also maintain its, maintaining its own, uh, equilibrium.
So, so, so, so I guess, I guess the point was that, uh, uh, convection, uh, pattern is, I guess it's gathering a pattern and, and transmitting a pattern.
It's an example, uh, back to the, uh, back to your brain, back to the observer who sees it.
But, um, so it's a, so I guess you can make an argument that it's, it's, there's a way to transmit patterns.
But, but, but I'm still, but, but, you know, from, in a, sort of, like, from, that's, yeah, that's, that's interesting.
Um, and I guess I didn't trigger Ben, though, to remember.
I did a conversation with having a shave with realizing I need a shower before my 9-13 meeting.
Um, so I'm just trying to listen in, but no, I can't remember what the other concrete example was,
but there was, there was a really good, uh, just grounding example of something that Michael and you were, uh,
makes some rather than you were saying.
No.
So, that's okay.
That's cool.
Was it about the, the whirlpool, um, of, of, uh, electromagnetical flux creating, um, coding on itself?
No, it wasn't.
I mean, there was one other comment about recursion is, of course, in programming, anything you can express recursively,
you can express iteratively.
So, if you can't get your head around a, a, a recursive way of describing things, uh, I, you know,
like the towers of annoying is a great example when I learned to solve that both as a program but also as a person.
You know, I was in Hamlet's a toy shop with those, those three annoying posts with a, with these decreasingly small, uh, discs on them.
And, you know, your challenge is that you've got, like, five discs on a post with holes in them, like donuts.
You know, five increasingly small donuts making a little tower and you have to move those all to another tower.
Well, I think the rule is that you're never allowed to put a bigger one on top of a smaller one, how on earth do you do it?
If that's a recursive, perfect recursive problem.
Um, a very simple way of doing it is you move, you imagine them in a circle rather than in a line.
You say, remove the smallest disc, one space left, and then do the only other allowed move, and then keep repeating that.
That's an iterative way of describing how to do the towers of annoying.
Um, a recursive way that would be to say, well, move, um, one disc to another post, and then, then everything else becomes a sub-problem.
Um, so recursion is about, like, the problem being that, when a problem has itself described as a sub-problem, a fractal kind of nature, you can be recursive.
But you can also translate that to iterative.
It's just, in some problem spaces, uh, an iterative solution to the towers of annoying.
It's a good programming challenge, by the way, for any programmers out there.
If you want to try and, uh, write some code to tell you how to solve the towers of annoying, but you're not allowed to use recursion, you're, I suspect, your program's going to be a lot longer.
Um, I'd be very interested to know, actually, if anybody has the knowledge, whether it fundamentally needs to be longer, uh, than a recursive algorithm.
And that's interesting, because that talks to compression and simplification, um, and representation.
But, um, but it certainly would appear to be longer.
So that's just another random thought I had.
The recursion is not, um, sacred, if you like.
It's just a way of representing a problem.
And I don't know if it compresses down to the same sort of size program as an iterative version, um, fundamentally.
Anyway, it probably does, because I think it answered my own question, but it's stuff about, uh, you know, compression and compilers and that way of looking at how, how, how information works is quite interesting.
Because it grounds the conversation nicely when you start talking about things like compilers and bootstrapping compilers and the likes.
So yeah, I like that direction.
I'm Ben, I'm done.
In fact, I'm just going to listen in for the next five minutes because I've got a shower.
Okay, thanks, Ben.
And, uh, I like the way you think.
So I'm, I'm happy, uh, we, we met here.
Uh, I, I actually wonder if, I mean, now, now you, you put that meme in my head.
Um, this would be rude point where I'd be rude if I didn't unmute and say feelings are mutual.
Of course, it's always great to meet people on here, but if I don't reply now, it's because I literally am in the shower.
Yeah, sure.
Go ahead.
Uh, you know how it goes on the clubhouse.
You never need to apologize for not responding.
Right.
And, um, saying that, I mean, now you actually got this meme in my head, like trying to figure out, um, if the length, uh, actually say something about, uh, the, the, the compression, um, when it's a recursion.
So I actually had this, I'm just going to share it with me and it's, it's happy hour, right.
Um, I, I was combining the, the, the research on artificial intelligence.
Uh, so that's one lab with the research on programming modeling lab.
And I got kind of in trouble with that because the, the two labs don't speak at all.
And, um, at a certain moment, like when you're talking about this expressivity, I was thinking like, you know, in, in artificial intelligence, there's a lot of, uh, in interest in, uh,
cultural language and how that affects, um, the thing you, you can express.
So I was wondering, is it, is it vice versa as well?
Can I actually start talking about, uh, uh, programming languages and the, the poetic ability of a programming language?
And what I did is I start looking at, uh, different programming languages and finding this very strange expression you only have in one language.
And then I gave a presentation about, like, the poetic, uh, nature of a programming language.
And as of that day, I'm not allowed in the lab anymore.
You know, there was this great, there was a great, um, this guy, he wrote this, uh, programming language that basically, like,
like, um, it's all like, it's all like rock music.
Um, let me see if I can find it real quick.
But it's like, it's like every, like every, every line that you write in, in the library is basically like a, like a, like a rock song.
I'll look it up.
There are way more people in the room.
So if anyone likes to come up on stage, let me reset the topic.
Um, and, uh, it's, it's happy hour.
So basically you can talk about anything you want.
Um, it's, we are talking related to neuroscience, but anything goes.
So come on stage and let's talk.
I found it.
So if you, if you'd like, if you look on, it's just called the rockstar, uh, language.
Um, and you can find it on, you can just Google rockstar programming language.
I'm sure it'll come up or.
Could you send me the link via Twitter?
I just sent you my PhD as well.
So you, you should have gotten the link.
Yep.
I'll do that.
Um, hi, Dasha.
Hi, this has been a fascinating wormhole of whirlpools to listen to for the last, uh, 20 minutes before I thought I was going to go to bed.
I'm sure my nerves in my brain will, uh, have, uh, a lot more material for my dreams tonight.
So, yeah, I just want to say that I'm really amazed, uh, actually after talking to Mixel, I, this, like, my brain is, is firing because here's the thing.
It's like, you know, one of, one of the, one of the things that's like, you know, there, there is a, you know, the human being is a dissipative system.
Like, we are vortex, the, the, there are oscillations in the brain.
There's, there are cycles and feedback loops and, uh, self-maintaining physics and the physics of every cell and the body itself.
And, and, and, and a, in a fractal way is trying to maintain equilibrium.
Like, these are all concepts that are sort of, like, tied into the, what, what, the concept of a, of a whirlpool needing to, um, you know, uh, maintain its, uh, its own order with the, I guess the, the topology of recursion was, was the, um, um, um, was what, uh, Mixel said.
But, that, um, I kind of wanted to hear more about that because when, because when Mixel said recursion, I thought of, wait, is he talking about, like, a recursive neural network?
What, what is this?
What is the network?
No, you're spot on with, uh, uh, the dissipative systems.
Really spot on.
So, so it is really like a recursion of recursions of dissipative systems.
So, and it, that actually goes back to, uh, topic, uh, discussions we had in 2004 on machine consciousness.
So, we had several people in the field of cognition coming together, uh, uh, starting to talk about machine consciousness.
And, and one of the things that came out of it is, like, maybe we really need to look at the, the mind as a virtual, uh, machine, like we know from, uh, uh, Java.
Um, now, all nice, and it, it's a good metaphor, but, I mean, we try to get grounded.
How do you do it as an applied scientist?
Uh, and, um, so when really realizing that we are actually also in that kind of recursion with, with our culture, I start digging into digital cultures.
And at a certain moment, that's, uh, 2010, I start interviewing every founder of a startup ecosystem that was really, uh, successful between 2005 and 2010.
And I was asking all of them, like, why are you doing open innovation?
So, my assumption was, uh, that they would have taken, uh, the, the culture of open source development and just projected it on, uh, the, the business, uh, development.
But when I told, told them what open innovation is about, they all thought, like, okay, that's a bad idea.
We're not going to do that.
Um, so then I confronted them with the fact that it was happening in the ecosystem.
So, how can it happen in the ecosystem if that's not the thing you want to have?
And what we figured out is that there was actually a dissipative system at the cultural level.
Um, so first, the dissipation, what, what is getting dispersed?
It's, uh, the ability to do, to do work.
So, in open source, you have the, the policy of community contribution, 10%, 20%, sometimes even 100%.
You can contribute to your own project in the community.
And that kind of disperses all the codes in, in relation to anything that can grow, basically.
Uh, but there was a second, um, uh, policy.
And it's the second policy that really created the feedback leading to, to the whirlpool, basically.
So, it wasn't open innovation.
It was self-organizing innovation.
The, the second policy was that all entrepreneurs were very aware that they were living in a
fragile ecosystem.
And that their action as a, as a, as a, as a, as a body, as a, as a organization, had effect
on the ecosystem.
And they needed to take care of that ecosystem.
So, all the time they were questioning, if I do this from a business perspective, is
it bad, good, or neutral to the, to the ecosystem?
And if it was bad, it basically was a no-go.
Um, uh, the prioritization was always when it was good for the ecosystem.
Neutral, you could do it, but good, you got priority.
And by that very simple structure, there was this kind of self-organizing innovation happening
during those moments.
Um, after 2010, um, there were a lot of corporates getting into the ecosystem.
And, um, I kind of got, uh, shut out of all the, uh, uh, back office, uh, discussions.
So, I kind of stopped doing participation research in that community.
But just to let you know how that, that cultural as the, it also, uh, has this effect on the,
the awareness and the ability and the embodiment that the, the, the agents below could do.
Um, hope that helps, but it, it's, basically, it's all about, um, the, the, the dissipative
systems.
Okay.
While, while you were talking, I was just, um, so, I mean, I, I have, I have, uh, uh, uh,
like I said, I have my own, like, so there's global workspace theory and there's different
theories of consciousness and I, oh, Dash is on the stage.
Welcome.
If you want to say something, go ahead.
I mean, I was just fascinated by the conversation.
I also am very sad, uh, Mixella, I don't know if I'm pronouncing your name correctly, um,
that you were ejected from a group after you brought poetry and art into the equation
about, um, AI and AI learning.
Um, my mother works, that works at the National Science Foundation as a program director in
exactly the areas of, um, you know, language and technology.
And she's very fascinated by, uh, the fact that, you know, cultural, um, language issues
are really what is, uh, stagnating AI a lot of, you know, um, in jokes, just cultural in
jokes and, uh, uh, humor is just so difficult for, um, for truly AI to encompass and possess.
Um, so it's, uh, I'm, I'm kind of sad to hear that you were, um, when you, when you were
bringing these topics into the conversation that, that you, that you met, were met with
resistance.
Oh, let me quickly respond.
Don't be sad.
I mean, it's all rock and roll basically.
I, I'm, I'm scaring people all the time by, by the fact of creating, I mean, I'm all the
time in, I mean, the thing I really love is, is being part of that system of creation.
And like the most recent thing I start scaring is basically, uh, everyone around me when
I, when I start moving up as a digital shaman.
So, I mean, I don't, I don't mind that so much that you, you keep on moving and it's,
it's the part that's the, the essence, right?
So if people don't want to continue that, that's okay.
It's everyone is, it's their own issues.
They need to work on there.
You can just keep on going.
So, but thanks.
I'm personally sad for, for just the, the moving forward of that concept, because that
is really at the core of what, uh, needs to be focused on how we're going to get there.
Uh, how are we going to have an AI that understands and can create real poetry just beyond abstractions
and, um, art and, and humor and, and language with, um, uh, playful, um, learning and understanding.
And, uh, yeah, it's, um, I think, yeah, keep, keep carving away.
And, uh, you know, if you ever looking for an NSF grant, you know, there's, uh, there are
people in that area that, that definitely do care about those things.
So, uh, interesting.
So, um, very quick response again, that, uh, that I actually working on a concept called
interversity and it's the whole idea of, um, if you have, uh, if you look at the, before
the internet, you had information locked up in books and it was hard to be creative with
that information today.
We can create apps and be really creative.
Um, so the information gets alive and the same actually exists with research.
Research is at academia is quite conservative, locked in schools of thought and locked in labs,
but now it's going digital.
You actually, um, start doing creative research and I'll send you, uh, an article I have about
the interversity and how I'm trying to work, uh, on that concept.
So, so thank you, Dasha, but I see there are more people on stage.
So, um, take, take the floor, go ahead.
Hi, I, I, um, did I see Mark raising his hand?
I had something to say.
There's a thread that, uh, I was following in quantum biology that had something to do
with neuroscience.
And I was, I wanted to see if anybody had more information, um, around this idea of quantum
tunneling and how that process.
Uh, so are you, are you talking about orc ore?
Uh, yeah.
Yeah, orc ore, but yes.
Um, well, uh, the, you know, I wish they would, I wish they would say more.
It's not, it's not, it's not clear to me and I think it's not clear to a lot, a lot, a lot
of other people, um, how, um, exactly the, the theory is supposed to, uh, I mean, there's
like, there's too many, there's too many missing pieces in terms of how it's supposed to.
So here, so my, I have, I have many thoughts about this.
So, so I, in terms of what the, the issues are that I think they need to solve, um, and
maybe, uh, so, so with, with, with orc ore like briefly, like, um, there's a lot of research
that said that, uh, points to, uh, people, um, having memory issues if their microtubules,
uh, are collapsed, right?
And so there's a, there's a correlation between microtubules and memory.
And, uh, microtubules are basically kind of a mystery in terms of like, uh, what, what
do they have to do with memory?
They just, they, they seem to be just the structure that holds up the, um, that, that helps, uh,
create the cell.
And, uh, so, uh, this, this, um, the, the, I, what I think happened and I don't know exactly
is I think the neuroscientist who came up with orc ore theory, he, he, he, he really needed
a way to explain what, what microtubules, uh, did that somehow related to memory that,
that, you know, result that like when they were destroyed, that memory, uh, became an
issue.
And so he, he came up with the idea that, um, that their structure was good for, um, uh,
in, uh, storing and interacting with quantum, uh, effects at, uh, at the, the temperature of
the brain, whereas, um, maybe, uh, other parts of the brain would, would not have a structure
that would be, would, it would enable information to, to exist, uh, or, or, or be traffic back
and forth at the, at a quantum sort of level.
So, so he, he created this orc ore theory and it's like, yeah, so, um, uh, the, the information
could be stored in, in the microtubule as like a, as like a quantum vibration or something.
I, I'm not a hundred percent clear and then somehow it could travel out of the microtubule
again and, uh, and maybe even, uh, it could be like a random fluctuation could travel out
of the microtubule and, and it could affect the firing of, of, of a neuron.
So, so it's just like, it's, it's just like a really sort of like obscure idea, but, but
I think what's sort of problematic is that there's, there's actually an alternative explanation
for why, um, microtubules, uh, microtubule collapse could be, um, causing memory issues
in the, and that would be like the, it is, it is like, so like, like for the way, um, memory
is thought to work is the memory involves basically, um, there's short-term memory, long-term memory
and, uh, there's, and, uh, the long-term memory, um, you're gonna, you can look up like long-term
potentiation, uh, you can look up long-term depression and, and these are like the major
mechanisms of long-term memory and then short-term memory, um, is, uh, I guess it's thought to be
about neural circuits, uh, triggering sequences of firing, um, and, uh, and over, over, you
know, maybe 10 seconds, um, and, but the, um, but the long-term memory, um, it's like
what has to happen apparently based on, there's this research of Alzheimer's patients where,
you know, it's been, it's been like for, so for a long-term memory potential, for a long-term
potentiation, a long-term memory, you need to have, uh, to store memory, you need to, a
new protein has to be synthesized.
It's just part of the process.
And in order for a new protein to be synthesized, there needs to be, uh, a space for that protein
synthesis to happen.
And if the cell has collapsed because the microtubules have collapsed, then there's no
space for that new protein synthesis to happen, and thus a new memory couldn't form.
And thus, there is a correlation between the collapse of a microtubule, but because it's
like the support structure for the new protein synthesis to happen, that's, that's, this is
that, so that's what I'm saying, is like there's an alternate reason for why a microtubule collapse
could be, um, involved, could be correlated with memory that may have nothing to do with
the microtubule itself being a storage place for memory.
So there's, so that's, that's the first issue, is that there may be just no reason for microtubules
to do that.
And, um, the second reason is that there's no clear, like, okay, so I guess the fluctuation
that comes out of a microtubule could somehow affect the, um, maybe the ionic charge of,
uh, so, so, so neurons, so neurons, when they, when they fire, when they create their firing
pattern, it has to do with, like, the separation of positive and negative charges.
Um, maybe, um, a tiny, um, fluctuation that comes, a quantum fluctuation could, could change
the position of an ion, uh, or something, and that might affect the, the, the, the firing
rate of a neuron, but it's just, it's such a subtle, it would be such, I think it would
be such a subtle effect that, and, and, you know, so maybe, maybe it does, or maybe it
doesn't, um, but maybe the brain has sort of, like, random stuff happening, um, at that
scale, or even larger, all the time anyways, and it just has, the brain is very good at sort
of, like, um, getting rid of noise, so if there is, like, sort of, like, signals coming
out of the microtubule, it might not be sufficient to, because the brain has, like, is trying to
filter out noise, so it can just focus on what isn't noise, which is information, you
know, you have, the brain has to separate noise from information, so I don't know that
it would, that the brain is set up to recognize, um, the quantum signaling, uh, that's supposed
to come from microtubules.
I mean, I would like to find out, but I think we need more research, and I don't know if anyone's
doing this research, um, but, um, but I think that's where we're kind of, I think, so what
I just, I think we're kind of stuck right now with Oricor, and right, and right now the neuroscience
community, because, because we're so stuck, and, uh, the neuroscience community is not, to,
to my knowledge, not, kind of not really focused on it, and kind of, like, not trying to talk
about it, um, in the, and, uh, so it's not a, it's not a popular topic, because, uh, it's
just, we're, we're, we're kind of, I think that, um, it's, it's really, it's a really hard
sort of thing to solve, and there are other things that are easier to solve right now, and
another point is that, like, whether there is a role for quantum effects in memory or not,
it doesn't really matter, um, because what I'm saying is, like, memory is sort of, um,
the, I think that there's a really good, you know, I guess they call it Hebeon learning, or the idea
that you're, that your neurons are detecting coincidence patterns, and the coincidence patterns
are, like, are, like, the basis of, of, uh, uh, or the detection of coincidence patterns,
like, the basis of detecting information, and, um, and so the idea is that, uh, whether
there's quantum, uh, effects happening or not with the microtubules, that doesn't change
the basic realities of how memory works.
It wouldn't say, we wouldn't say that long-term potentiation is invalidated, or long-term depression
is invalidated, or that the existing knowledge of short-term or long-term memory changes, we
would just say, okay, well, there's additional information that's coming from and going to
microtubules, in addition to what's already true.
So it doesn't, it's not a revolution per se, but it might, so, so maybe down the road, uh,
50 years from now, or I don't know how long, there, people will say, oh, well, there's
this additional thing, where quantum effects are, are, are, you know, have a sort of two-way
traffic that are, that are inter, that, that are involved with, uh, interactions in human
memory, but it wouldn't, it wouldn't change the, um, it's, it's sort of like, it's, it's
not, it wouldn't change the paradigm, it just would, would add a little more complexity
to, uh, how everything works.
That, that's my thoughts.
I just got an insight when you tell that, like, oh my crap, maybe the tubules are yet
another dissipative system that exists below the embodiment of, of the, the current understanding
of DNA and stuff, it's, uh, it's kind of triggered my mind, so thanks a lot.
I mean, I, I think honestly that the entire universe is fractal dissipative systems, so, I, just,
that's my feeling, but, I mean, so, like, a cause, a cosmos is a dissipative system, it
is a cyclone, it, it has a, it has a rotation, it has to maintain its equilibrium, it exports
increasing extra P to the surrounding environment, it has all the, that's, that's, that's, is it,
that, that is, um, I, did I say cosmos?
I meant galaxy.
A galaxy, you can see, if you look at a picture of a galaxy, it's a cyclone, just like a hurricane.
If you look at the, the diagram of, of, of an atom, it's a cyclone.
These are, like, so we have cyclones in the atoms, and we have cyclones in our galaxies,
and everything in between is, is a cyclone as well.
A human being is, is a dissipative system is a, is a human being, as a life form, that
is a cyclone, uh, in, and on paper, if you look at the physics, that a human being has
to maintain equilibrium or maintain life, has to export increasing entropy to the surrounding
environment, to survive, to maintain that equilibrium.
A cell does the same thing, that's another cyclone, it does a human cell.
So, like, the entire universe is, is, is, uh, is a fractal of cyclones.
That's so funny, I mean, one of the things that inspired me a lot, uh, so when I was earlier
talking about, um, the convection cells, so there, there is a guy, a professor in the
University of Brussels, who got a Nobel Prize for that in the 1970s, um, and in the last
thing he actually wrote, was a book in 1996, called The End of Certainty.
So, it's The End of Certainty, Time, Chaos, and the New Laws of Nature.
And I really like the way that he's actually, uh, starting from the, what we really understand
from thermal, advanced thermodynamics, to get a better insight of what is happening at
the, the, the quantum level.
And that, that aligns exactly with this whole idea of everything is like a fractal structure,
well, well, fractal, yeah.
The problem is, fractals are very often just considered the, uh, the recursive structure,
well, if you actually look at the essence of a fractal, it's about fracture, it's about,
uh, being rough edges, and, and how you can actually start measuring with that, so that,
I know there's always quite some confusion of, uh, uh, the, the recursive nature and, uh,
fractal nature.
But I follow you, I mean, it's, it's always, all the time, this, this, uh, dissipative system
popping up at, at the next emerging level.
And that kind of aligns with the, the stuff, uh, the philosophers are doing with the emerging
vector theory.
The emerging what?
Emerging vector theory.
So that's, that's, it's, it's something philosophers are, are pretty heavy on at the moment.
Um, to, to, to stop trying to, to, yeah, um, I'll try to look it up and see if I can give
you a link, but if you want, there is actually, I recently had a talk with, uh, a guy called
Alexander Bart, um, and we, we talk about things like, uh, uh, tribal poesis and, um, uh,
emerging vector theory.
I know he's, uh, he's a big, uh, uh, defender of those kinds of theories, but we actually
have this group, um, called intellectual deep web, where, where we have like this mailing
list discussions, uh, talking deeper on these topics.
All right.
Um, let's see.
I was, uh, uh, so, uh, Carl or anyone else, does anyone else want to say something else?
Just pause if not, I just wanted to bring back the conversation there to quantum biology
for just a second and quantum, uh, tunneling in the role of, or whether there might be any
space there to discover more about free will, because it seems like there's absolutely no
evidence for free will and plenty of evidence against it, but I'm wondering if, you know,
some, some of the, uh, questions that quantum biology bring up for us in consciousness have
anything to do with free will?
I would like to refer to Don Hoffman, uh, I mean, if you, if you look at the, the work
Don Hoffman has been doing around, uh, uh, brain activities and eventually coming to
mathematics of the free wave particle, there's kind of, we, we have a very different way of
looking at, at, at, at the, uh, the whole, uh, quantum level.
So, but you may actually try to, to have a look at his work.
So that's, uh, uh, Don Hoffman and I think it's the case against reality.
The case against reality, Don Hoffman, D-O-N, Don Hoffman.
So I have a different recommendation.
Uh, I recommend a book called, um, The Neural Basis of Free Will by, uh, Cricht is the
Neural Basis of Free Will, Criterial Causation, uh, by Peter TSE, Peter Ulrich, TSE.
And, and, and that, so that, so that, um, so he, so Peter is making the argument, um, sort
of that, so, so it's like, so organisms are making decisions, um, and that our thoughts
are, our neurons are detecting, uh, are detecting, you know, information.
They're detecting information versus coincidence patterns and then, and then detecting features
and, and, uh, objects and, and, uh, and rent and, and our neural networks are, are, um, what
am I trying to say?
Uh, so at some point we, where our neural networks are considering information, they're considering
the models of reality that they've collected and they're, um, uh, they're predicting, uh, possible
futures and then they're sort of like making a decision towards the, some future that they
liked more or that you liked more.
You like, maybe you like the orange or maybe you like the apple, but it's your, it's your
mind, your consciousness that has received information, considered information, and made a decision
towards one possible future or another.
And it's, it's like your, it's, but it's like that mind is not, I think of that mind is
not separate from physics.
That decision is not separate from physics.
And I think people get into trouble and say, okay, well, well, you know, if you had, okay,
so if you had no consciousness itself, no one had consciousness, but our brains just made
decisions to like grab oranges or grab apples, would anyone, would anyone like, someone else
made up this argument, but would anyone like, you know, need to, well, I mean, if, so if someone
was conscious and they were watching this happen, you know, like if we're, if we're in that
scenario, why would we need, why would anyone, if there's no consciousness, why would anyone
need free will?
It's like, so this idea is like the idea of free will came, uh, came from, I think this
idea that the free will is sort of separate from physics or that the mind is separate from
the brain.
And, um, but if, if, if, if, if you don't have a separate self, um, if you just are one
with the universe, then, um, there's no separate self to be making any decisions.
Um, it's just, uh, it's just, you know, the organism that is you is making decisions,
right?
But it's not separate from the universe.
And so there's like, there's no conflict between, uh, you making, doing what you want
and, and, and so, and, and, and making the choices that you want to make, um, but those
choices are not going to be free from, from physics.
And as soon as you like phrase it in terms of like, are you saying, wait, are you saying
that my choices are free from physics and everybody says, no, no, they're not, they're not free
from, that's not what we're saying.
But, but aren't you saying like that my, my mind is not connected to, to my brain.
It's like somehow like it doesn't interact with my, with my brain.
Isn't that what you're saying?
I mean, then they say, no, no, that's not what we're saying.
It's like, it, it only works, the argument only works if the, if you don't let, if they
let you prevent them from, from getting into the fine details.
Like as soon as, as soon as like, yeah, your mind is based on physics, your, your, your,
uh, decisions are going to be based on physics.
You're not going to escape physics.
So what exactly are you trying to say your will is free from?
What is your, what, what do you need your will to be free from?
Do you need your will to be free from physics or, or like really like, what does it, what
does the idea come from?
It's like, so I think, I think that maybe that the idea of free will in our culture, um, is
like, it's like, you know, my, my brain controls my hand and my brain doesn't control my friend's
hand.
It doesn't control your hand.
So your will is free from my will.
Your will is free from other people's will.
And everyone has their own free will from each other to some extent.
And I think that's what it means.
Um, but there's no separate, there's no separate self to be making decisions.
There's just this idea of a self and there's like conscious thoughts that are part of the
process of making decisions.
And, uh, and what, what the quantum realm gives us, if it gives us additional data patterns
through micro-tubules, you know, maybe, maybe it gives us like some randomness or maybe it
gives us some additional information we didn't have before or sends and receive more information.
But what I'm saying is like, if all you're doing is adding and receiving more information and
it's like, basically like, it's like, imagine, imagine you have like a computer and the, and,
and the computer processes 10 applications a day.
And then you say, okay, we're going to like add some quantum effects.
All right.
We're adding quantum effects to the computer.
Okay.
So it's now it's a quantum computer.
What's different?
Well, instead of processing 10, 10 files per day, now with the quantum effects, the computer
is going to process 11 files per day.
And we're going to make an argument that that means if the computer has free will,
no, it's still a computer, even if you add quantum effects to it.
And so a human being is still a human being, even if you add quantum effects.
That's what I'm saying.
It's just like the same, it's going to be the same process.
Yeah.
Following you all the way, Misha, just wondering if Carl is wanting to say something he's been
waiting for.
Yeah.
We can be enlightened through the use of multidisciplinary convection.
You're breaking up a little bit, Cecile.
And I think all Carl's also...
Thank you, Cecile.
So, Carl, the floor is yours.
Can you hear me?
Yeah, I can hear you.
Not very well, Cecile.
Cecile, you're breaking up a lot, about half the time right now for me.
Maybe I'll just cut off.
But anyway, what I wanted to say earlier is that the point of being...
Sorry, Cecile, you're breaking up again.
It's too bad you have this bad connection.
And I really want to hear Carl, if you don't mind.
Hi there, no problem.
The conversation's been fantastic.
I've been in here for about, I don't know, about 30, 45 minutes now.
A lot of it has been over my head a little bit.
Not so much over my head, but rapidly expanding my horizons.
I don't have a background in neuroscience or philosophy.
But this has been incredibly interesting.
And one thing that's entered my mind as everybody's been talking and giving sort of the back and forth and whatnot has been that a lot of this just seems about perspective.
As in, you know, we were talking about trying to define consciousness and whatnot.
And, you know, we're saying, you know, rock doesn't have consciousness.
But then could a tree have consciousness?
You know, a human has consciousness because can an ape have consciousness?
And it just seems...
And then we went all the way up to a sort of cosmic level or a solar system level.
And is it not...
I mean, this may be a very fundamental thing that I've just never heard about before.
But is it not just the case where what we're really talking about here is perspective, as in if you take the perspective of size and the perspective of time, as in if you take a tree, for instance, and you were to invite someone along who hadn't studied before and to look at a tree and say, is the tree conscious?
And the person would say, well, no, the tree isn't conscious.
It's not doing anything.
It's not reacting to anything.
Usually that person a time lapse of a day with the sun going overhead or maybe external factors.
Because acting would see processes happening during the stimulus.
So at that point, then you could say, well, the tree is conscious of something it has.
I love that definition of a decoder.
I think it was...
I can't remember who it was talking about.
I think it was Micah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Sorry, I've just put your name.
Yeah.
I love that because, yeah, that kind of makes logical sense to my very untrained mind.
But then if you keep going up, you know, you say, well, okay, humans are conscious to something.
And if you go up even further, you can say, well, a country, somebody mentioned a country or a state earlier.
Well, if the state has these individual points of electrical firings, which are its individual people, and then as a whole is then reacting to other states as an organism, is that then not a level of consciousness?
And if you go up even further, you say the solar system, you spread across the solar system, or a galaxy versus a galaxy.
If you have one galaxy filled with people or, you know, a spreading of people, different people, different alien civilizations, whatnot.
You know, we're talking about those bubbles joining together.
I think it was Ben, when I first came into the room.
So that then again, you've got consciousness acting.
So then in my mind, what you're saying is, and I'm literally verbally regurgitating here.
I'm trying to make sense of this.
So I do apologize if this isn't very coherent.
Are we talking about just when there is a lens?
As in, when you have a system, a chaotic system, so if you look at our brain, you have that chaotic system, even down to the quantum level of things firing at such a level, which for our current technology is very hard to map and predict.
And then above that, you have a cognitive lens, which tries to make sense of that and order it sort of, you know, is that the defining point of it?
Or is there something special to consciousness?
Do we have something special or is there something unique that happens, you know, either as a whole in the system or with that, that lens, that cognitive lens, which is tease out or direct a system of chaos?
Is there something special or does it just depend on your perspective?
You know, if you change your, your frame of reference of time and size, could you classify anything as conscious?
Right.
That's the essential, that's the essential question.
If you, if you, if you, the second, the second you can define, uh, consciousness as some, as, you know, something is conscious and something isn't conscious, then you've proven to yourself at least that, um, and you, I mean, maybe you still can't convince everyone else, but you've proven to yourself at least that, uh, that not everything is conscious.
As soon as soon as you have a definition of what, of consciousness that isn't absolutely everything, then you, then, then you don't, then you no longer have panpsychism, right?
Uh, I think that, um, I like the earlier spectrum, yeah, like that you were discussing about, um, you know, that it, it seems more like a sliding scale than a binary with consciousness, or is that just from our perspective, it looks that way from our current lens, you know, and that, you know, past the sliding scale, it's just that we just can't see because, you know, on another dimension, we're just, we just can't see it, you know, we can't fathom it.
Yeah, exactly, I had, I had that exact thought as we were, we were, I was sat here listening, is that we're defining consciousness, consciousness given our current referential frame, you know, we have, we have eyes, we have ears, we have taste buds, we have these senses, uh, and we have the ability to, to introspectively sort of look inwards, but then you could just as easily have an organism above us, which has, I say above us just, you know, just as a reference, above us with an extra,
you know, with a, you know, with a, with the ability to sense, I don't know, let's, let's be ridiculous, um, the ability to sense sort of electromagnetic fields, built in, built into that, that creature, to a degree where it could actually use it to sense and interpret its way around the world.
That different set of sensory inputs is going to give it a completely different sense of reality, and it may look at us, and our way of defining consciousness is ridiculous, because how could we possibly be defining consciousness or even contemplate consciousness without,
how, while we're, while we're missing this unique frame of reference or this, this sense that, that this higher being, in air quotes, has. So then you're back to, well, it's just, you know, your, your point of reference you happen to be looking from. You can, you can define it as well as you can, given your tools.
You know, you know, I just, I just, I just really, I just really wanted to take a moment to appreciate what Dasha and Carl are saying. That's just really, um, beautifully said.
Um, yeah, that's just perfect. Like, I, I just, I appreciate that perspective so much. I, I, I feel like I've figured it all out, personally. And so for me to hear other people say that they haven't is just,
it's, it's wonderful. Um, but I, I'll, I'll share with everybody if you want. Um, so like, I, so like, I, I don't think that it's, that it's, uh, it's my, my opinion, and feel free to disagree.
I don't think that it's the electricity in the brain, and I don't think that, that, um, but, but what I think is like, so there's like the, um, there's this idea that, uh, consciousness, you know, we're, we have models of reality,
and the models are connected to other models, and you have, you know, your brain is, is, is making a model of, of, the parts of your brain are making models of everything in your environment.
You have, you have, uh, cortical columns that are recognizing, a cortical column is, is, is bringing together, like, the, the 3D model of every object, of one object,
and another cortical column is bringing together all the 3D properties of another object.
And so if you pick up something like your phone, the cortical column is integrating the, the visual information, the sensory information,
I mean, the touch information, like, how the phone, what, how the phone is oriented relative to you, um, and so you have, basically, in the brain,
you have all these neural columns working together to integrate all these different models together,
and this experience that you have, if you, if you take your, your, your room right now, or your, or your, if you're outside,
if you take the space you're in right now, and yourself, those are all, um, those are all, like, every, every object,
and every thought, and every consideration, including just abstract ideas,
ideas are just managed by different neural columns, integrating different pieces of information that are constructing this,
it's like, uh, this movie, this four-dimensional, uh, movie, where, where, but it's like a multi-layer movie,
where it's, like, has multi-scale, has got all these different objects in it, and, um, it's, and it's, it's got, like,
there's patterns of, like, you know, what, what are your feelings, where are your feelings, what, um, you know,
are your feelings peaking, they're all four-dimensional patterns, the smell, there's, there's four-dimensional, like,
what's the peak of a smell, what's the space of a smell, um, every thought, every feeling, every emotion
has these four-dimensional patterns, so they can be described, basically, um, as, uh, temple and
spatial patterns, and so everything that you can think of is a temple spatial pattern, inside a temple
spatial pattern, the room that you're in, the feelings that you're having, and so we have the, and, but they're
all, they're all, um, connected together, they're all interfacing together, you can be aware of all of them,
um, to, to more or less extent, uh, as you, as you're, as your focus shifts around, uh, as you, you
think about the room, you think about your feelings, your focus shifts, but you can be aware of the
interconnection between all the different, different feelings, they're all temple spatial patterns, the
brain has, uh, the brain specializes in temple spatial patterns, all the electrical firing is, is
frequency patterns and spatial patterns, all over the place, and all over those places, exactly what we
would need, if we wanted to create a simulation of, of, of a consciousness that was temple and spatial
patterns, but not only that, it's like, it's like, the, the, these are not, it's, it's not the
electricity itself, it's not the, um, it's not really even the neurons themselves, it's, it's the, the
patterns which are just information, and they're, and that's, that's an important point, because it's,
the information is basically non-physical, but it requires the physicality to move, to move
between, but it can be like, you can have an idea, um, anywhere in your brain, you can have, the idea
of, of a, of a cup could, could be represented by any neural column, in theory, uh, it's not the way it's
gonna work out, but, but it's, it's because, because the brain is like a general, it's like, it's like, it's like,
imagine the brain is like a, it's like, um, it's not just like one piano, it's like having a million pianos in
your head, and so like, any of these pianos can play a tune that you hear, right, and so when neuro, when neuro,
medical imagers look at, at your brain, and they say, okay, okay, so which, so which, so where is the,
the pattern that represents the sound that you just heard, and, and, so they look for the pattern, and
it, and they see, oh, there's a pattern, okay, let's look again, let's see if, let's see if it's, if we got
it right, and then it, there's this, the pattern, it's not, it's a different pattern the second time,
what, what's going on here, and then it's a different pattern the third time, I don't understand it,
why is, why do we can't have the same pattern in the same place every single time, it's like different,
it's like, you have all these different pianos, and when one, when one piano is, is done playing,
another, another piano decides to play that, play that tune, and so the information itself moves
around, it's like virtual, it's not even connected to, to your, to, to one area or another's necessarily,
it's, it's, it moves freely, and so what I'm saying is like, we have this like, virtual information
pattern, that's not the electricity of the brain, it's not even, it's not really even the, the brain,
itself, it's just, it can move around, and, and, and so we have, we have, um, uh, but you don't,
but, but it's basically, it's basically like, it's not like information, it's not like an
information theory, it's not, I mean, it's not integrated information theory, it's not global
workspace theory, it's, it's not, it's not integrated map theory, it's, it's, it's like virtual model
theory, right, it's like virtual model theory, let's write that down, and, and so the whole thing
is like, um, you have these virtual models, and, um, and, uh, so, so the, the whole thing is like,
um, um, but yeah, so it's like, I love, I love that your piano analogy and your virtual models just
made you sigh, like, I, I love, I, I, I love how, uh, becoming the whirlpool yourself, you know, right
now, and I, it's, it's wonderful, um, I have a question that I would love to ask about, um, thoughts
on this, uh, I work in, in virtual reality, I've been a performer in, in a VR experience, uh, for the
last year and a half, and, uh, have been also seeing some new things about being able to, with,
like, Neuralink and, um, neuro, like, being able to control, um, games and, you know, computers or VR
with, um, with your mind in the future, um, and has been already kind of proven with, uh, the small
amount of, um, hardware out there, that is a topic that I would love to know if there has been more
going on and anything available right now with, uh, a user interface that's, uh, like, potentially
a performer could have a different interface than, uh, an audience, and if there is anything,
uh, if, if anyone knows any more information about that right now.
Did you say Neuralink?
Well, uh, I know Elon Musk is doing his own, like, thing with, like, controlling a phone with
your, uh, mind, but there is a company called, like, uh, LuxedLink that was doing, like, neuro
gaming of, like, controlling VR with your mind by, there's, like, a device that you just put
on the outside of the headset on the back of your head, and, uh, you essentially are just,
you know, there, there are areas in your brain that are firing off when you think of, with your
right hand picking up that object. And you can essentially do that already with this, uh, device
that has, is just on the very outside of your, of your head on the back. Um, it's, it's, it's not,
you know, fine-tuned yet, but, um, it, I watched a demo of it on a YouTube, um, link that was pretty,
kind of blew my mind. Um, and as a, as a performer in virtual reality, as a live performer in virtual
reality, I was like, wow, this could, like, really change the game if I didn't have to use controllers
and, um, just, it just seems like a whole, a whole nother level without having a chip implanted
into my brain. Um, but, um, yeah, just, uh, since this was a room of people that, that know more about
all this, I was, I was wondering whether anyone knows, uh, any further developments in terms of
non-invasive, uh, hardware that is out there that is picking up on brainwaves in order to
use it for storytelling or, um, entertainment purposes.
I, in fact, do have, um, so, uh, I was part of a room the other night and we reviewed a paper,
which, which, which I think you think, I think you would totally like, um, and, um, it was,
it was called, uh, oh my gosh, let me look on my LinkedIn, but it was called, um, uh, that's,
it must be late at night because I, I actually started talking before being ready to talk. Um,
let me see. It was, there's a really cool paper. I'm almost there. Uh, everyone liked my post
yesterday. Okay. So it was called, and you might, so you're going to want to look this up. Um,
it's called, uh, hybrid EEG dash F nurse based eight command decoding for BCI application to
quadcopter control. Um, so this was like really, really cool. If, if you're, if you're into, uh,
uh, the topic of, of controlling things with, with BCI, they, um, by combining two different
modalities, EEG and F nurse together, uh, they were able to, um, have, uh, more, more control
over the quadcopter than they could with just one modality because, because with one modality,
uh, you, um, you would say like, for example, just EEG, you're, you're, you're sort of like the
more, uh, buttons you try to, to, to enable the worse your, your accuracy gets. But if with two
modalities, you can have more buttons without losing your accuracy. And, uh, so this is a really
cool paper to check out that I think you would like. Does anyone else want to jump in? I have one
more thought, but I can wait. I wanted to ask a question. Go for it. Go for it. Were you
wanting to continue with recommendations for Dasha first? Sorry. It was, uh, no, I had, I had, I was
connect, when I connect, connect something I was saying before to something other people were talking
about before, but I bet I can wait. Oh, well, I wanted to, um, refer back to something Carl said
in response to you, but, um, Dasha, do you feel like you got an answer to your question?
Oh, for sure. Yeah. I also would love to go back to what Carl was talking about. And also, uh,
Hyperspace, the book, was what kind of got me thinking about, like, another dimension being
just impossible to see. So that's also a, a book that I enjoyed that stemmed back to Carl's, um,
thought. Can I say, well, I, oh, sorry. Go ahead.
Uh, go ahead. Go ahead. Sorry. Thanks. My name's Chris. Um, and I appreciated Carl, um, talking
about perspective, mentioning perspective, and I was having a similar question. And like
Carl, I am a little out of my league here, but as an artist, I've had a long time interest
in sort of reconciling actually, uh, um, scientific views and, um, primitive views and, uh, magical
views. I always kind of feel like there's gotta be, there's gotta be some sort of reconciling
description. So when Carl mentioned perspective, it, um, I was going to ask a similar question
rather than, aren't these, uh, all a matter of perspective, it's sort of, I also feel like
it's in a way, it's a matter of, um, description. And sometimes that, you know, like there, for
example, there's sort of a, uh, uh, might be useful to make a distinction between, um, sensitivity,
awareness, uh, and consciousness, uh, and, and information for that matter. And because
I, and, and it's easy to sort of conflate different scales when you're throwing words around like
this. And, um, I feel like, um, well, I wonder, Micah, if you've read the work of Ian McGilchrist,
who's recently been writing about the split brain and, and describing how, um, um, from
his perspective, consciousness rather than a state of is more like a process. What you
were saying, at least I saw a similarity, Micah, between this idea and what you were talking
about, about these, this kind of the freedom of these information pathways, these activity
pathways. Um, and he describes in great detail, the sort of the relationship between the left
and the right brain in when, in what I take to be our most contemporary understanding of
it. And again, I'm really unqualified to, to know that for certain, but, um, but in this
relationship between sort of inner self and outer world, inner, inner sensitivity and outer
sensitivity, this, this, this oscillation between relationships to the world, to everything,
to reality, there is a, um, there is a necessary process there in which, um, paradoxes are being
reconciled, impossible choices are being made, sensitivities are being understood. And it's
really in that dynamic process that, uh, that meaning is, is sort of generated. And, and if
you describe it as a process, then you can also map it onto, uh, a spectrum or, or, or more
like a space, like a color space. There's a, and so you can then talk about greater or lesser
degrees. And so I suppose on some level you could go to the ultra subtle, you know, like
a rock as like as close to zero as you can get and, and exist as a coherent, um, you know,
mass. And then you could probably go in the other direction up to something that, that we
don't really understand. And somewhere in the middle is our embodied. That's really
all I can offer is just kind of a way of describing it. That seems to me to, um, the, you can map
a lot of different descriptions onto that. It seems to me. And I, I, when I read Ian McGilchrist,
it was my first glimpse of feeling like, ah, this, this actually might be the, the sort of
theory of everything description that, that all these different, um, perspectives can, can
find some sort of, uh, description. So thanks, thanks for the chance. That was a fascinating
conversation. I really appreciate it. Does anyone want to, uh, jump in after that or say something?
I have more thoughts, but I'll wait for other people to go. I mean, I had a thought about
the fact that you're saying that the rock is like the least, you know, in your perspective,
the least, uh, if you're looking at a spectrum constituting the least, uh, having the least
consciousness. If I again would bring it back to perspective, like Carl, Carl was saying
that the rock is actually just part of the entire earth, which you could argue has more
consciousness with how the earth and the rocks and the lava and all of the, the whole earth
itself, earth as a matter has a lot more changing and adapting to what is going on in the universe.
So, um, again, I feel like bringing it back to like frame or lens, like Carl was saying is,
um, um, a very valuable thing to kind of keep circling back to.
I like to connect this actually to something that was mentioned earlier by, by Ben, who,
who left the room, but, um, the, there is this kind of, uh, also problem in, uh, cosmology related
to fine tuning problem and so on. And what, what I can see is that if you, if you take like a,
uh, what I like to call an interface theory of everything, so we can actually, um, better
start understanding how the, the limited ability for us to integrate the, the, the experience,
um, um, allows us not to fully understand what cause consciousness in the cosmos actually
means. And, um, that's, there's a very easy way to, to show that to people. And that's
by just, uh, I can't hear you. I don't know if other people, you, you, you cut out right
when you were going to tell us the, like the essence of the, everything. Um, okay. Try
again. Okay. So the, so what I see, so, so what I see as the interface of everything,
it's, it's, it's the idea that we are boots. The answer is 42. The universe doesn't want
us to know. There's a conspiracy going on here. Somebody doesn't want Mixel to impart the
knowledge. Really? Mixel, it won't let you, the universe will not let you tell us. You
figured it out. I think. Yeah, absolutely. You, you're on the right track. Clearly. Yeah.
I know this is happening all the time. Um, more than you think, but three is a magical
number. So you have to try at least three times. Well, for me, four is a magical number,
but, uh, and I actually discovered a bit of mathematics that, uh, uh, shows that as well.
So I'm, I'm trying to figure out why, uh, well, at least three or four times. Go ahead. Yeah.
Yeah. I like five. Ah, well, I, I, I'm sticking to four. The, so what I'm seeing is, is that,
um, the, the fact that we have this, uh, way to integrate the information and be aware of
the experience we are having, it always relates to, uh, the way we can do that. And, um, understanding
that there's like more consciousness in the cosmos that we simply cannot fully understand because of
our, uh, the, the way we are perceiving it all and integrating it all. Um, you, you could actually
already show it pretty easy by just looking how different people are in respect to empathy. So, um,
as a, as a, um, understand the world, but I see other people who have, for example, a lot of empathy,
related to the social cohesion and I can't fully understand them and they can't fully understand
me. So already there, there's like a, a disconnection to the things we are trying to integrate.
So, and, um, one of the things I really find fascinating is that some blind people, um,
have learned to, to use, uh, echolocation, um, to, to visualize the world around them.
Um, so, so they move more into the, the, the, uh, the experience that also bats have with the world.
So, so we don't even need to go that far. We can just look at each other as mirrors and understand
how each of us is limited in the way we perceive the world. And if we try to extrapolate that kind of
limitless already between us to limitless between me and a rock, that's, that's crazy.
Um, so I had this talk with Don Hoffman about that because he's working pretty well on that interface
theory. Um, and, um, so, so between me and a cat, for example, it's still doable. I can still
have like a coordination going on with me and the cats. Uh, but me and an ant, that's, that's already
totally impossible. And yet there's a living clearly some kind of conscious thing. So if you
try to, to, to use that line of thoughts about consciousness, you really see how limited we are
between by the frame of reference we have. I mix a little speaking, um, can I quickly? Oh, no,
sorry. Go ahead, Carl. Uh, go ahead, Carl. Thank you. Sorry. I had a brain fart earlier while,
um, when Michael was speaking and mix. So that's the perfect segue, uh, into, um, what popped into my
head is that if, uh, uh, Mike, it is Mike, am I pronouncing that correctly? That's how I pronounce
it. Yeah. That's right. That's perfect. Um, um, when you were talking about the sort of recognizing
the system as in perceiving the system, you're just, it's not electricity. It's not this, it's
not that it's not mechanical. It's, it's the ability to take the information and pass it. Um,
I wonder if you, if you take that and go further with it, if you get to a point in the development
of a civilization where you could just classify consciousness as, as, as, as the accuracy to
a particular system as in, you know, humans may not even register on the scale because although
we're conscious, we don't have enough accuracy in the system. So, so we, we can perceive an
environment around us. Um, we just can't do it accurately enough. So you could literally,
I wonder if, you know, it's an, an inevitability that you just have a simple scoring system,
you know, to what degree can that creature, can that being, um, can that being render or describe
or process this X environment or the environment around them to what accurate accuracy. But then
as, as Mixer was just talking there, um, cause you brought up empathy, which hadn't come into my
mind. I had the complete opposite thought, which is what you define it as actually the ability to
completely ignore your current surroundings and instead take yourself out and move your ability,
move your, your, have the ability to move your referential frame into like when we're talking
about empathy into somebody else's. And that's, that's a very different dividing line because
then you're talking about the ability to, to take yourself, you know, if you say that person over
there to take yourself out and put your existence or your referential from into, into theirs, which,
you know, which is akin to imagination and, and, and, um, extrapolation. So yeah, two completely
opposite ends, you know, as far apart as they could be really. Um, yeah.
Well, Carl, for me, those aren't opposite ends. It's, it's, it is, um, it's like the two sides of the same coin.
So the, it's, it's like, you need shadow to see any shape. So it's, it's, it's not, it's not a contradiction.
It's, it's, uh, it's a different in perspective. And, um, you, you really remind me a lot about
the talk I did have with, with, with Don Hoffman about this, where the way he looks at it is also
like we are filtering a lot of all the complexity out to actually make sense of the things we love.
So, so it is a combination of, of, because if, if you have all the information at all the times,
you basically get into this entropic state where it's like, everything is gray, right?
I mean, you, there, there wouldn't be any taste if you start mixing, um, super, uh, the, the main dish
and the dessert all together in a blender and then try to swallow that. That's going to be terrible.
So you, you need these differentiations and separations to actually have any kind of game going on
anyway. Um, so, but that really resonates a lot with, with, uh, with, um, I'm gonna,
I'm gonna just now, uh, um, uh, send a tweet to, um, uh, a YouTube channel I have called Deep Digital
Friends and the, both the discussion I recently had with Alexander Barth about the, the, uh,
tropopoiesis and the, the, the talk I had with, um, Don Hoffman really resonates a lot with the,
the talks we are having here. So I'm Mixel and I'm Don speaking.
So if folks go, if folks click on Mixel's profile and click on
Twitter and they look at the most recent tweet, they can see what he's, the tweet that he's tweeting,
right? Yes. Okay. I, I, uh, I, I realized after doing that a few times that some, sometimes,
you know, people, when you say check my Twitter, they don't exactly know they're supposed to click
on your profile first. But yeah, click on the profile and then, then the Twitter.
Uh, I, I, now I can share my idea. Um, so, um, so, so, um, so the, the, the, the
practice to the idea is that, um, if we can define what consciousness is and then, uh, then,
then we no longer have to say, uh, that, um, then, then, then, then no longer do we have,
um, what is it called? Panpsychism? We don't have, we don't have that anymore.
Because, because, because, because that, because consciousness has to be everything, right?
Um, but, you know, if we can say, if we can say, if we can say what it is now, now the
problem is with Dasha and, uh, was it Dasha and Carl or, or did names move around? But,
so, so, so, some people were saying that, that, um, um, um, I just remembered it was the person
in the first column and the second, like the second row and the person in the third column
in the second row. Sometimes names move around. Um, so the, so, uh, the, the, what was said was,
um, was, um, was, well, maybe we don't understand what consciousness was. And, and so then I came
up with, uh, another theory of consciousness, which is my theory. There's a bunch of theories,
right? But what I, so what I'm saying, so, so my argument here is that, so, um, that what separate,
so, um, what, well, I, you know, I actually wrote it down so I wouldn't have to be like stumbling
around. Um, so yeah, so Carl, was it Carl? It was saying render, describe, and process into
what accuracy. That was really great. I wrote, like, I, I wrote that down too. That's really
great. Um, no, no, I was thinking something about, is it, is it because brains are doing
a very special process? Yeah, that's, that's, that's, that was the, that was the thing that
I wanted to respond to. Yeah, so, brains are doing something very special. So, if you look,
if you compare a rock, you say, so, the, so, the argument from, for panpsychism is that there's
a spectrum from, like, a, a, a, of consciousness from something as simple as a rock to something
as, as, uh, like a human being to something like a galaxy, there's a spectrum of consciousness,
and they, there's different ranges, right? That, that's sort of like the, one of the, one
of the arguments. Well, so, but those arguments don't include computers. No one says, okay,
there's a spectrum of consciousness from, from a rock to a human being to a computer and
then to a galaxy. They never mention computers. And the thing is, like, a computer, like,
the complexity of it can be vastly greater than the complexity of an insect. But the insect can
do things the computer can't do. The computer can be vastly more complex than, than, than,
than a mouse in terms of what it can do, but, versus the mouse, but it's not conscious. You
know, we know it says the computer's conscious, but why not? Because there's something very specific
about what, what brains are doing that, that computers are not doing yet. And so, the computer
it can, can render, it can describe, it can process. To what accuracy, though? I mean,
this is greater accuracy than human beings, right? But, so why isn't the computer conscious
yet? And, and that's where I think this, this, you know, this idea that we, we are,
that our, our brains are doing something very special that rocks are not doing. That we're
creating models of reality. But we're, but we're, we're, we're creating models of reality
that are, are able to, because of the, the, the, because of how the brain works, they're able
to, to slide around and move around and connect with other models of reality. And all the models
of reality are able to interact with each other. So you can, so you can have, you can have a cup,
right? And maybe that's represented by part of your brain. And then when you throw it from your,
from your right hand to your left hand, guess what has to change? So you know, see, when it was in
your right hand, you had all of your, uh, you, you had your, you had a neural column that was
representing your hand and the cup together, the right, but it was representing the right hand and
the cup together. Well, the right hand is not located where the left hand is located in your brain.
So you toss the cup over to your left hand. Now you have to have a neural column that's,
that's, that's talking to your left hand, that's integrating the bottle that's in your left hand,
even though it is the same bottle that was in your right hand. So the brain activity has to change.
It's, it's like, it's like, um, it has to move around. So as stuff moves around in your environment,
it has to move around in your brain. And, um, and there's a rock is not doing that. That is the,
your mind is minds are doing that. And so that's a special thing that minds are doing that rocks are
not doing that computers are not doing. And, and, um, and so, and so if you know that, then you can,
then, you know, to yourself, you can prove yourself that panpsychism is not it. That's all.
That's it. I'm Mike and that's it.
I wonder if, cause you were just talking about computers that are having the accuracy and the
perception, but still it would be difficult to argue that there's consciousness that
this is getting a little bit into AI and the techniques that, um, a lot of AI, um, companies
are working on. But I wonder if it's just because there's too much accuracy, there's not enough
chaos. There's not enough randomization in the system, um, for it to, for it to generate
something which we would cause chaos. It's too linear. It's too ordered. Um, yeah, maybe that's it.
And that leads on, like I said, that leads on to some places now I discovered for AI learning,
that it's much better to give a very loose sets of, um, a loose sets of, um, orders or limitations,
and just let the system work itself out.
That's kind of funny that there is a, uh, a session by, um, wait a minute.
I'll, it's called criticality and complexity. And it's exactly what describing this difference
between, uh, on the one hand, you have a lot of entropy on the other hand, you have, uh, no entropy.
So, and, um, but complexity is in between it. So I'll, I'll try to give the link, um, with my Twitter,
actually just give the previous link with the Twitter, uh, where you actually go into the
mathematics of cosmology on how you can understand the emerging of complexity as the interface
between low entropy and high entropy. I'll, I'll, uh, pinpoint the exact moment he starts talking
about that and showing the, the, the science, the, the mathematics of it. So check my tweets
in a few seconds via my profile. I do like the theory that there just hasn't been enough allowed
to the computer. Like we haven't feted the chaos of the, of the universe enough. Um, wasn't there,
um, some, uh, something that happened with two computers that, uh, they were, they were allowed
to kind of talk back and forth and make their own language. And they started doing something so
outlandish that they had to like shut the whole thing down because it was like getting out of
control. Um, oh man, I wish I could remember what it was, but it was, it was some sort of, um,
experiment with, um, I don't know whether it was like a translation system or just two computers
were that were allowed to communicate back and forth. And, um, they started making up their own
language that became so separate from what the organizers of the research were doing that they
got nervous and just shut the whole thing down. But, um, that's what it's reminding me of.
Uh, who, anyone want to respond to that? I think Dasher was just describing when my Alexa
accidentally picks up my Siri and they entered me back. No, this, this was something that was, uh,
that was a study that they were doing that then, um, they were, you know, just getting, I guess,
nervous that some, they were getting too close to a singularity and, uh, um, just, just shut it down.
But, um, I think I remember that story and I think these two computers were, um,
started to sort of manifest what appeared to be malevolent language of some kind.
Yes, yes, that's, yes, that's what I'm thinking of this exact story. Yes.
I don't remember the details either, but it was quite remarkable.
But, um, I guess while I'm on, if it's okay, I'll just, I just want to,
Micah, I really, I really enjoy listening to you. I mean, I, and I, I just feel like,
I still feel like there's some sort of language. There's some, the language is sort of a hall of
mirrors and you're, you, I understand, if I understand what you're saying that, you know,
that if you understand this mechanism, there's no more panpsychism. And, and I just keep thinking,
well, it just depends how you want to describe it really. Like, I'm not so sure why, um,
you can't talk about, you can't, in any given scenario, can't you, can't you talk about extreme
degrees? I suppose I would agree that there is a point of absurdity where placing something on a,
on a graph is just, is just meaningless because it's in a whole nother, but, but it still, it still
can be, um, I don't know. I think there's a kind of poetic, there's a poetic value. I find a
poetic value, you know, but I know that's not, you guys are, this is not a, a poet's room. So
I'm just going to listen. Thank you. I really appreciate it. Oh, yes, it is.
Yeah. We're just, we're just joking around. It's just happy you are, but, um, I, I, you can,
you know, you can, you can write, you can tell, you can, if you want to share a poem, you can,
I, I, I, I think, but, um, I don't know, I don't know who's in charge. Maybe Mixel's in charge.
No. Um, I, I, I, I would like to respond, um, if I can, um, and I will. I'll go. Okay. Okay. Um,
so I, so, um, the, uh, so, uh, I like the idea that there's a spectrum between, uh, the smallest
brains possible and the largest brains possible, um, that between an insect's brain, um, and, uh,
or between just like a basic nervous system or basic, or basic, uh, brainstem, you know,
all the way up to the, the really interesting complexities of the human, human mind. And so
I think there's, there's a spectrum there with, with, um, hardware that, um, matches, uh, that is
capable of running a certain kind of process. And, and, and that's the key. There, there's hardware
that's running a certain kind of process, and that would be like most, uh, most of the brains. And so
there, there, there would be a spectrum of consciousness from conscious to unconscious. Um,
and it would, it would, um, and I don't know exactly how that spectrum works, but, but, um,
but, but I imagine the smaller the brain, the, the, the, I don't, I don't want to just, I don't
want to even finish that thought, but, but I just like, I imagine there's some sort of spectrum
there between brains, but, but not, but a rock wouldn't be included because a rock is a different
process. That's, that's what I'm thinking. I hear you. As the son of a librarian, I appreciate
your categorical neatness. I totally hear you loud and clear. Thanks.
If, um, um, consciousness and awareness will be achieved, um, once we actually merge and meld
in some form or another with computers, um, in some sort of android or cyborg, uh, instance,
because then you have the accuracy to potentially perceive, or maybe, you know, if you were talking
about, um, hardware, adding hardware to the human body, maybe potentially perceiving infinitely,
um, but then the chaos of the human mind underneath and the ability to dream and imagine and be empathic.
So I've, I've started to, I've sort of devoted my life to doing three things. Um, one is to solving
neural lace or nerve gear, basically the ultimate brain computer interface that plugs you into the
matrix or allows you to, uh, experience AR and VR just via direct brain stimulation and close loop
therapy. Um, the second thing I am planning to do is to create artificial cortex. So if you are
missing part of your brain, then you could just, um, replace it with artificial cortex, or you could
extend your brain into a larger brain with this artificial cortex, which interfaces with your
brain naturally and processes basically information in the exact same way. And, um, it could be,
but not necessarily with the same hardware, but basically with the same function, functions. And,
um, that would, that artificial cortex would be capable of, of, uh, of conscious, of being a component
of conscious thought. And then the third product, of course, is artificial brains that would be
entirely separate, but also capable of consciousness. And, um, so, so, so what I'm saying,
getting to the point is that I believe that we could, uh, create the process that, that brains
have that enables, um, uh, what, what I'm defining as consciousness, what, what, what I think we are
thinking of as consciousness, but being, but, but it's difficult to describe. I think we could take
that process, that experience, and I think we could, we could bring that process into a computer
and make a computer conscious. Current computers don't have the right architecture, uh, software
architecture, um, and, uh, and, and, and they have too, too many hardware limitations at the moment,
but future computers will have, um, vastly, uh, improved, uh, hardware, computational hardware,
uh, and, uh, and vastly improved, um, software. And that software and a new, uh, neural networking
architectures will, um, will enable true, uh, consciousness, uh, the way, the way human brains
have consciousness, human level consciousness and beyond in computers. That's, that's what I,
that's what I believe, but I don't think that chatbots, um, will accidentally become conscious
ever because it's not, it's not the right structure. Can I ask you a question about that?
Yeah. That your, your statement, um, uh, again, I, I would, I'm interested if you have,
if you are familiar with Ian McGilchrist, he's actually a psychiatrist, but writes, um,
about the neurobiology of consciousness. Really, really interesting to me. But, um,
one of the things that he mentions, and I've also heard mentioned in other
discussions of the nature of human consciousness is the, the vitality of embodiment in the process.
And so, you know, because we're, we're getting all this sense data and we're
interpreting it as you beautifully described with all of this, um, I forget the exact terminology you
use, but I was sort of visualizing this kind of almost projection mechanism where we're applying
tremendous amount of information that we already have association. Some of it is correct. And some of it
is in error probably. Um, so we have this kind of very complex reality that we're both experiencing and
interpreting and, um, um, affecting. So it's this kind of real time complexity that involves embodiment as a
crucial component. So how does that, how does that fit into your, your, uh, proposed model of, um,
hardware complexity conscience? That's my question.
Yeah. Yeah. Um, so I have thoughts, but I'm, uh, I'm a little slow right now because it's late. So let
me just, um, leave it open for a minute and I get led other people to, uh, maybe either answer that
or, or share some thoughts and then I'll come back to that. It's late everywhere. No, same. I was about
to go to sleep when I just popped in here and I, this is, it's impossible to leave. It's off. It's
noon in Brussels now. So, but I jumped in, it was morning. I mean, I have a, a separate kind of
question about, um, neural, neural healing, um, which is completely unrelated. So after, I don't
want to, you know, bring in a whole other topic though. If we were, if we're in the process of
wrapping other things up. Oh, throw it out. We could just vamp with it for a while.
Um, this is Dave here. Sorry, Dasha. I have one question. Sorry to jump in for Mika. Just now
about the consciousness for the machine itself. When there is a situation, uh, when a machine need to
make a decision, how did the, uh, mechanism or, or method a machine can, uh, make a decision based on
a certain value. So the value system of the machine, how you teach, uh, the, the machine
to value a certain situation like human do. Okay. So, um, so the, so there, there's, uh,
there's, there's, there's a lot of, a lot of work, um, that's been done by other people
that I can sort of talk about that, that, um, that could be relevant. Uh, the answers, the answers
are on different scales of magnitude depending on your level of focus. Um, there's many different
scales of answers related to, to this, to this. So I could talk about, um, you know, like there's
the, like, you know, how, how, like at, at a, at an architectural level, how the, the, the future
neural networks will, will make decisions in a granular way, uh, based on some analysis of how
the brains make decisions in, in, in an extremely granular way at the, at the neuron and neural
circuit level. But, but that's one level of focus. Another level of focus is, is to, um, you know,
basically how will machines, um, um, learn, uh, all of the relevant information. And, um, and so there's
a work of, um, you know, uh, many neuroscientists, and I'm sorry, I'm sorry, many, uh, deep learning
engineers who, who, uh, want to basically create, uh, who, who want to train artificial general
intelligences, um, to not only do the same, to not only, like, be able to at least do the same
things that children can do, but, um, but to sort of, like, raise artificial intelligence as, as, uh,
as are the way you would raise the children first, and then turn, and then turn that child into an
adult, but walk them through basically a lifespan of, of training in, in sort of, like, the same
sort of, like, you know, along with you as, um, as, uh, maybe you'll be a virtual being or a little
robot, but it will learn along with you over, over the course of a lifespan. And, and maybe you'll have
many people have little robots with them, and the, the, the robots will learn sort of, like,
knowledge at the temporal pace that human beings are in. So they learn to understand that, you know,
because it takes a human being, uh, you know, 20 plus years, uh, to, to learn some things, you know,
right? Sometimes it takes a human being 30, 30 or 40 plus years to learn some things, you know? I'm,
I'm only 40, so, I mean, I imagine there are things that I won't learn until I'm 50, right?
Because it takes 50 years to learn those things. Um, and, um, and, uh, so, so, uh, but, but, you know,
but, but maybe, um, uh, once we have one machine that has gone through that journey with us as human
beings and, and understands, um, the information that matters to us the way, um, the way, um, we
understand it, then, then perhaps we could, um, sort of just copy that machine and copy their knowledge
and, uh, the way you copy a hard drive. And maybe at some point we'll be able to, uh, read, of course,
read and write to the human brain as if it was a special kind of hard drive. And we could, we could
pass along advanced information, uh, to other human beings digitally, um, just by plugging their minds
into the computer. Here you go. Here's, here's decades of knowledge. And maybe, maybe at some point,
future human beings will, will have the equivalent of, of, um, of millions of years of knowledge,
uh, and, and, or maybe trillions of years of knowledge because, because, because, because
at some point you could have these, uh, these computers that have been trained to understand
everything that human beings have, uh, sort of like, um, you know, go through like some sort of
hypers, hyperspeed, hyperspace virtual program in which they, they can, uh, do, uh, they can live in,
in, in virtual civilizations, um, at, uh, at, uh, at light speed compared to the pace of life on,
on outside, uh, virtual reality. And, uh, and when they come out of that, um, they've, they've,
uh, lived a vast, uh, you know, a vastly longer amount of time than, than any human being has ever
lived. And, and then, and then that knowledge could be, um, uh, pulled out of them and, and,
and passed on into human beings. So human beings in the future could, could have, um,
um, trillions of years worth of knowledge that was acquired virtually, um, through, um, uh, robots
that learned to, to be humans by living with us. I love that concept. That's very reminiscent
of, um, The Egg by Andy Weir, which is a, a wonderful sort of short story. Um, that's,
that's like, like my mind, what you just said just then. So, um, those are examples of, of robots
that are embracing the, the knowledge of embodiment, which so, so many people feel
is so essential and so critical to consciousness. Um, I'm of the mind that, uh, you could have
an alternative form of consciousness based upon understanding, my understanding of what
the conscious, the conscious process is as a process. That is a process that's independent
of the, the, the, of the, the, the data that's coming into it. That's my understanding. So
that, so the, so you could have a virtual environment or you could have just like abstract stock data.
You could have, um, I mean, what, what, what is, what would be important to the brain is
the ability to make, uh, connections between different, uh, types of, of, of, of data so that
there's a multidimensional representation, um, that happening, but, but there, there could
be a conscious, consciousness of a multidimensional representation that is unlike anything that
we, we experience as, as bodies, as embodied consciousness. And that could also, that other
alternative consciousness could also be conscious, but in, but in a different sort of dimension
of reality.
So do you think that the consciousness, as you understand it, requires a,
a physical substrate of some kind? Like, uh, uh, does it require hardware?
Yes. Um, yes it does, but only because there's no way to separate information from physics.
Information is non-physical, but it's like a pattern, but it's never not embedded in physics.
It's never not somewhere.
Right, but what about like a radio, radio waves? What about a carrier wave? What about
some sort of, um, I mean, there's still physicality there. I, I, I, I understand where that could
go, but, uh, but, um, disembodied as we might think in the solid sense.
Yes. So with, so with the, so with the radio wave, there's two parts, right? There's one,
one is the wave and the other is the information. And even in, even in the radio wave, it's like,
you know, it's like the, the radio wave itself is just like a CD-ROM and, um, and the information
is just the pattern in the CD-ROM or in the radio wave. And, and so it's the same sort of,
it's, it's, it's just, um, it's just a, it's not, it's not, it's not a solid CD-ROM.
The problem I have, Michal, with that, uh, view is that it's too concrete. We, of course,
we know CD-ROMs and computers and how we store information over there, but we, at the moment,
still have really no clue how we, uh, uh, touch into information with the brain. And, uh, I was
following Chris, I don't know, Chris, right? Chris. Yeah. Chris, I was following Chris with
what about radio waves? The, so the way we approach it, uh, from, from, from our research
fields, which is systems and cybernetics is that, um, it can actually, first of all, be described
as a system and a cybernetic and that, so systems and cybernetics is basically something
virtual, but it's about, um, creating somehow a recursion into a system you can create. So
I, I, I mentioned earlier, um, you can actually create a virtual machine as a scaffold to create
something in that virtual machine that can build an actual machine. Stuff like this is happening
at the moment as well. So, um, so I want to disagree with something that was said, that Michal
said. So, um, so I, and purpose, like whenever, like, whenever I hear anybody say, we don't
know, I, I always react internally. Like I should tell them to just say, I don't know.
And to never say, we don't know, because if they don't know, they can't speak for everyone
else. They don't know what everyone else knows. No one took a survey of everybody. Um, but,
but what I want to say is that we, is it, is that, um, it is known by at least some people
how, how the information, how the brain detects information. Um, and, and, uh, so you've heard
of Hebrew and learning, you know, there's, there's, um, uh, neurons detect, uh, coincidence
patterns. Neurons detect when two neurons downstream fire. That is the detect detection of information.
That, that is in a book called The Neurobasis of Free Will. And, uh, so that's known, not unknown.
So, and what is known there is that, uh, something can create a pattern that something can recreate.
That's the thing, that's the only thing we know. No, no, it's, no, it's, it's that, the, that information
can be detected as coincidence patterns and then considered by, by neural circuits and then stored
by... Yes, as coincidence patterns. That's the essence, as a coincidence pattern. So, that's
cybernetics. I can't tell if you're agreeing or disagreeing. I'm not sure. Do you want to hear
a poem I wrote about the brain race? The thing is that, but, but that's the thing that, that's
been described in the 1920s. And that's what we mean with, with the we, if I was referring
to the we, I was referring to the group that actually started the school of thought related
to systems and cybernetics. And I mean, they made many misconceptions, like every new school
of thought, um, it, it all has evolved. And today we talk more about complex adaptive systems
and evolutionary cybernetics. So, so, but it's still basically the same. It's the same that
there are patterns you can see across domains, across disciplines, which you kind of start
understanding as a kind of laws of nature, but in the 1920s, thirties. So that's the found founding
moment of, um, the, the, the, the, the cybernetics. It, they, they started understanding that those
patterns are, uh, uh, you, you can describe them in a virtual way and they still say something
about reality. So if you create a recursion between those two, you can bootstrap it.
And that's what I've been trying to say earlier, like what the things we're doing with something
like a bootstrapping compiler or, or what we're doing with scaffolds when we build,
uh, uh, physical, uh, buildings. It's, it's, we create scaffolds as a temporal weak structure
to create something more stable that can exist once, uh, we, we created the, the, the feedback.
And once we create the feedback, we can take off the, the, the scaffold again, and then the building
can stand on its own. So, so that's kind of, uh, bootstrapping. That's the thing that, that can allow
you to start creating from a virtual world, like just an idea, and then put that idea by action
in the world and you create scaffolds first and then the thing becomes more autonomous.
All right. Um, so I, I want to go around the room and, uh, we'll, we'll, we'll wrap up soon and give
everyone a chance to, to say, to say something. And, uh, and before we wrap up and anyone who's in the
audience who wants to come up and say something before we go, just, um, raise your hand and I will
also send an invite. Um, and then, uh, after everyone has said something, we'll, we'll go
ahead and, um, you know, cause I just, I feel a responsibility to, uh, it's good. We, we've had
such a great conversation, but I'm keeping everyone awake except for, except for Mexico
is afternoon over and, uh, and, and, uh, and don't know what time it is in Manila. Uh,
let's see what time it is. Uh, but anyway, so, but for some of us, it's, we're up, we're up
too, too late and our sleep is super important. And, um, so I'm, I'm going to like, uh, so I'll
go ahead and, and, and pause, and pause for myself. It's been wonderful. And, uh, and
to seal, do you want to say something next? And then, then we'll just go in order. Then
Dasha, Jesse, Carl, Chris, Mixel, Shane, Dave, and et cetera.
Can you reset, refresh the room so that the order is, uh, for everyone the same?
Oh. Okay. Yeah. Everyone. Okay. So I guess, I guess, uh, Dave is, is, is, uh, is in charge
of the room now. Um, so yeah, Dave, if you want to go first and then Mixel and then
seal and then Shane, Dasha, Jesse, Carl, Chris, and then I'll invite the rest of the folks
if they want to come up. And, uh, so thank you everybody. That's, uh, the last from me
and, um, I'll go ahead and, and let you all finish it up. So I guess Dave is, uh, not
there. So I'll get asleep perhaps. Yeah, maybe I can understand you guys. I mean, yeah, for
me, it's, it's, it's been a great, uh, morning, right? It's, it's noon now. I need to go eating
also. So do a lot of other stuff, but it was way too fun to, to, to, to leave. Uh, and so
thanks a lot, everyone. I've, I've learned a lot. It was fun to interact with all of you.
I hope to see you guys again and have continued the discussion. So until the next time, I've
enjoyed it a lot and I'm very happy to be here. Thanks.
It was a great conversation. I'm very thankful to have listened to all of your ideas and have
met you today. It's too bad. I had a very bad signal. I would have had a lot of things
to say perhaps in the near future, we could do a new discussion again to continue and explore
what we're thinking about and researches that has been shared in terms of, uh, the
connectivity of different disciplines and the complex. I think you cut out. Yeah. So
thank you. Okay. Next. We're dropping like flies here and our brains are falling asleep.
Perhaps. Um, yes. I also just thank you so much, uh, Micah Mixel for, for having such a,
just a thorough back and forth when I joined this room that it was impossible to leave. And
I, uh, really appreciate you, um, having a conversation where you disagree, but are challenging each other
in respectful ways. Um, I in the future would love to, um, bring up the topic that I didn't get to tonight
about, um, the olfactory nerve and nerve healing with COVID and the brain with what's going on
with COVID. That's an interest of mine. And I have, um, some very good friends that are suffering
greatly. So I have, um, a lot of, um, questions and thoughts about that. And I'd love to have a
conversation down the line someday with anyone that's interested in that. I want to quickly
respond to that, Tasha, because like eight years ago, we, we actually tried, uh, to create a project
on food security. You try to guess where and try to guess what we try to prevent. So I would love to,
to get in there. We want to build a living city to improve food security for the province of
Hebei and the top diplomats of the province. So that's the province where Wuhan is located. But
the top diplomats really wanted us to, to work on that, but we got kind of canceled out by the, the,
our own, um, well, uh, diplomatic, uh, uh, frame from, from Europe. So I'd love to tell you a lot more
about that. And I would love to go into those directions. Thanks. Yes. You wanted to say
something falling like flies going over to Carl. Thankfully it's, uh, it's only 11 in the, uh,
in the morning here. So I'm relatively awake. Um, this has been a wonderful conversation.
I intended to come in for about five minutes because I was a little bit bored and ended up
staying for, uh, an hour and a half. I think it was something like that. Um, it's been absolutely
wonderful. Um, Micah and, and, and Mixel, you've been fantastic. And then, you know, Dasha
and, and Jesse and Chris have been absolutely wonderful as well. You've definitely, um, helped
this ape understand a little more of the world outside of his cave. Um, yeah. And, and my
takeaway from this is, uh, maybe consciousness is defined at the point where you can ask if
I'm conscious. I'm still conscious. Thank you, uh, Micah and everyone for, uh, indulging
my amateur dabbling. A really, really fascinating. And I, a lot of, a lot of, um, things that were
said this evening are kind of fuel resonating, which is all I can ask. And I am actually going
to leave you with an eight line poem about brainwaves. It's called, it's called team brainwave
action calibration chant. And you have to imagine it in a call and response, but I'm just going
to read it in my sleepy monotone here. So it goes like this delta, theta, alpha, beta sequence
and switcher looper, theta, gamma, gamma, gamma, hey, flash of insight for today. Theta, delta, beta,
alpha, gamma, gamma, gamma, gosh, stage dive into mental mosh. Alpha, beta, theta, delta, need a nap,
I'll see you later. Gamma, gamma, gamma, hey, remember what you came to say. Beta, alpha, theta, delta,
give me sleep or give me shelter. Gamma, gamma, gamma, gosh, surf the curl of wishy-wash.
Uh, Cruz, you just made my day, thanks. That was amazing. Glad you liked it, thank you. That was cool.
Anyone else? Is that it? That's it, I guess. Good night.
