=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: b0323y SIMULATION Black & Chrome Media Entanglement Simulation Theory Sort
First recorded: 2021-04-05T04:18:14.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/b3240a10-7354-4063-abd4-c46bbb367e39
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Reconsidering it, or anyone who was skeptical about it and now considers it a real possibility, just out of curiosity.
You know, I just jumped in, so I'm not sure if the context of what we mean by simulation or not.
A lion can, basically, so imagine a lion has to navigate through its own environment, and it has to, do you know, just the way a computer can render a 3D object from code, our brains render 3D objects from incoming senses,
and, um, so the lion is, is rendering a 3D environment in order to navigate that environment, and it's rendering a representation of itself in order to move through that environment, um, so that it can go from point A to point B.
I hope it's okay that I, that I joined and expressed so much skepticism. I do find it...
...here, you know, obviously not the universe, but it begins to show that certain aspects of intelligence may very well be modeled.
So, um, I had a thought about this a while back that I, I feel is, uh, basically the key, the key idea here, um, and that is that in order for a simulation theory to be relevant, it has to be, uh, has to be, um, easier to explain reality itself than, um, uh, whereas if, if, um, if you have a situation where adding simulation theory to reality, um, adds a plus one to the complexity of reality,
then we have to eliminate it to, um, because of, like, Occam's razor, right?
We have to go with the simplest explanation of reality.
So, the only situation in which, you know, we would switch from, you know, reality is, is, uh, is what, uh, you know, what scientists have been telling us for a long time to a simulation,
is if the simulation hypothesis, um, actually was, uh, the easier, um, explanation for what reality is.
And, and, um, so that, that's, um, that's the big, that's the big question.
Is it, is it adding complexity to our understanding of reality, or is it making reality easier to understand?
So, by, by definition, does the simulation have to be created?
No, I mean, some people are, are, are debating whether or not it's been created already, right?
I mean, obviously, somebody created it, maybe, you know, somebody is either a, um, you know, someone else, it could be someone else's computer,
and someone else, you know, it could be a, a Russian doll problem, where it's just one simulation in another, in another, in another, in another.
Is that, is that what you were talking about, Jeremy?
Yeah, but I guess, even there, I guess, like, someone's hitting, like, I guess it's the question of, like, it's programmed, and someone hits go.
Like, if we think of, like, kind of, have an issue of physics simulation, right?
We have, kind of, initial state degrees of freedom, and, and interactions between those degrees of freedom, and just let the system evolve.
And I guess, at that, at that point, that, that's, that's, that's almost the same thing as reality to me.
So, um, but, again, there is, like, the, that higher question of whether someone actually, like, programmed it, and, and hit start in the first place.
Well, there's also a theory that we are our own, um, it's the matrix idea, where we're in charge of our, um, agent here on Earth, and we are in another dimension, trying to have a human experience, and seeing what that's like.
Because we are, um, level of intelligence, and we want to know what it's like to breathe air, and have sex, and listen to rock and roll, and get drunk on whiskey, or fall in love, you know, and we don't have that in this other dimension.
I think that's a very interesting way of looking at it, as well, when it comes to, like, uh, manifesting, and you get into some of the more, you know, psychic abilities, or precognition.
And, um, it's pretty fascinating to look at it that way, as well.
If I could say, um, I, I think if, if, um, if the simulation has to be someone else's, that we're on someone else's computer, we're adding complexity, and therefore, you know, we can, with Occam's Razor, we can say, okay, well, it's not necessary.
Uh, it could be true, but it's less likely than that we're not.
Uh, did I cut out?
Um, yeah, so Occam's Razor, yeah, so if, if, if, if the simulation is that we have to be on someone else's computer, then we have to say, well, where did that?
Where did that computer come from?
That, that is similar to the argument, well, that, that, you know, God created the universe, well, what created God, right?
It's sort of like the, that, that is like additional complexity that's not needed, and then we, we can just cut that theory down, because, uh, it's not necessary.
It's, there's an easier explanation, but if it's the case that, um, you know, if, if, uh, if understanding the rules of, of, uh, if understanding the, the properties and, and, uh, maybe you call them the laws of quantum physics and, and reality at a fundamental level, um, if, if we can say, well, reality is in some sense, uh, a computation or a simulation or a holographic, um, computation simulation,
like, like, I'm throwing a bunch of buzzwords in there, right?
But, but, um, but if, if, if at that point, you know, maybe, maybe that ties into, you know, Amy's, Amy's idea that, that, that, that, that beingness can exist at a different level of abstraction.
That's, it's, it's, it's different and has different dimensions that are, that are less physical, um, and then, um, then maybe there's a way to say that, you know, calling the universe a simulation is, is, is, is a simpler and less complex, um, explanation for what reality is than the old, old way.
And in that, in that, in that case, um, as, as, uh, more people, uh, begin to understand that and, uh, and, uh, and, uh, and agree with that, then that, then that becomes, then that would become the consensus, perhaps.
Um, but, uh, but it, but it'd have to be shown.
We have to get to the point where, you know, Lilith would, would even agree that it's easier to call it, to, to, to understand realities of simulation, you know, if, if, if, to, to understand, you know, everything from, from quantum physics to, to, to, um, to, to, to life.
And, and, and, and, and everything else in between, um, but, um, but, um, but I, I, I'm not yet at that understanding.
So I don't, uh, I don't, uh, know that that's, that is an easier explanation.
So you're taking from the external world or.
Exactly.
I mean, I think quantum entanglement is interesting.
Um, and I, I think that, Lilith, do you work with quantum physics?
No, no.
Oh, I, I just good old fashioned linear algebra is, is what, uh, makes the, the AI that I work on work.
Yeah.
Jeffrey, Jeffrey does.
Okay, cool.
Um, I, I think, you know, quantum entanglement is, is, I think the biggest, um, example, I think of how it could be a simulation.
I, I think of all of the, the reasons, you know, that you can go through, um, the fact that, you know, you can, um, well, I mean, I'm not gonna, I'm not a quantum physicist, but I do, um, I do study it.
And I can't articulate it correctly, but I know that if you are, you can put, is there anybody here that can explain that?
You could put two, um, particles together and then they, you can separate them, right?
And they, and they behave the same way.
That, to me, suggests that, okay, if we're talking to ourself in our mind, which everybody does, I mean, we all bounce ideas off of our, so you, so you, yeah, your microphone broke up, but that, you're, I think you're referring to quantum entanglement.
Go ahead, Micah.
Uh, your microphone was breaking up, so I just threw in, uh, that I think you're talking about quantum entanglement, but I'll just pause and let you continue, sorry.
The micro, your microphone broke up, that's why I said that.
I'm sorry, yeah, I'm having some, a bad connection, sorry.
Um, I just think that, you know, if you split atoms or you split particles, correct, and, uh, there's an entanglement, I, I, I just look at the mind as in there's an entanglement in another dimension that is communicating with me here.
Some people call that God, um, and we are able to, uh, exist in different planes, and, and that is proven with quantum entanglement, so I just think that's interesting.
Anybody have any thoughts on that?
So, there, there are some complications to that, so, um, if, if my mind is, like, so say my, my mind is entangled with some external dimension,
as you say, if that mind is also interacting with the real world, like, then you're having a, like, a continuous loss of, of that entangled connection, right?
So, you would have to keep, keep those, those elements completely isolated, um, to, to keep that entangled connection fixed.
Um, and then, you can't, you can't, you can't use quantum entanglement to transmit classical information, you, you're only really, or at least classical person tested in the speed of light, um, you, you can, you're only really, it's, it's sort of complicated to go into it, but you, you, you, you can only, um, kind of transmit these, these correlations, but there's no classical information.
Uh, I have one thing that I wanted to say, um, well, they say a lot of different things with particle accelerators and stuff like that, like, you know, like, random things that could happen, especially when things are split, like atoms, and things are split, or, you know, like, uh, you know, split into different things that are of equivalence that they put off, you know, immediately.
Like, like, faster than even light, and there's, like, so many different theories, but I think maybe it's a part of that paradox type of thing that they talk about with particle accelerators and stuff, and how anything could happen, you know, by creating a successful, like, particle accelerator or splitting atoms or something.
So, maybe that's kind of, like, opening up Pandora's box right there.
Well, well, thank you, everyone, for, for, um, explaining and, and helping me try to, to look at things in a different way.
It sounds like if I'm to have any hope of, of, of, like, really understanding it, I might have to, uh, do a lot more, um, physics homework and, and, like, get caught up on the math and the equations that have, that have convinced people, um, that this is like a...
Well, remember, you can create your own equation, too.
Like, everything is, everything in the world is not strict.
You can become your own, like, you can discover something today, too, you know?
So, yeah.
I think, I think you're giving me too much credit, um, like, uh...
It's, like, a very different, or different ways of, like, making sense of our, like, experiences, like, it's just, like, a very different...
It's not really...
...for a person conducting the survey.
...anyone person's the idea that there's a simulation and it's not falsifiable, that is obviously a religion, and I just will unfollow that person and never listen to them again.
Because you can't, like, that this, like, a simulation has to be a falsifiable argument to be real.
It's like, it's like saying in religion, they say, well, you have to believe there's a thing above your mind that you can't understand.
And, uh, I have to say, no, I disagree with that.
I, I believe that, uh, there's nothing above my mind, you have to, you have to prove that.
You can't just, like, you know, say, oh, there's things above your mind, you can't understand them, and there's things you can't figure out.
Cautiousness can't be figured out.
Like, these are, like, fake, uh, sort of, like, um, boundaries that people are trying to, to put on you to keep you inside, uh, the matrix, inside their ideas.
So, I just, um, would not listen to that.
So, the only thing I would ask you is, instead of saying, we don't, we can't understand it, just say, I can't understand it.
And don't speak for me, don't speak for other people.
Just say, I can't understand it.
But, but, but, but for yourself, you know what I'm saying?
Like, like, I'm not accepting, uh, any sort of limitations on what I can understand.
But, uh, you're welcome to do that for yourself.
You're bringing up something, the neural virtualization, and how it kind of ties to the laws, and how, is it, properties, does it, uh, assuming it, if the virtualization kind of hypothesis is true, that it doesn't matter, that the neurons don't really matter, and therefore the substrate doesn't matter.
You can apply a set of rules to seemingly any substrate, as long as you have codified it in a certain kind of language.
Um, do you, am I, am I going off the deep end here?
No, I mean, that is what, that is what some people suggest, that these, uh, you know, that there is some, uh, artificial entity that is, uh, a program that, that is running.
And that this program is, uh, interpretable, um, basically, uh, by, by, you know, it, it, it, it constructs universes, and it, it constructs us.
And we obey, and we discover what it, what it, what it already, uh, what it presents to us by reverse engineering, what is, what it, it is presenting to us.
Yeah, so, like, what I'm saying is, is, yeah, exactly.
If, if, if, is there an ideal, or has the evolved language is, is there a supreme language that could possibly be out there that, that, that if we were to be applied to our current substrate, that it would kind of give us an insight into this?
You know, because, you know, because as, as, as language evolves, you know, we learn new things, even going to the quantum stuff now, everyone's talking about, like, the ZX calculus, and, and all these different new ways to, for representation of, of the universe.
Um, is that, do you think that if we had, is there a ideal language that we could eventually realize these concepts with?
I think people in the AI community are still struggling with that.
And there's, there's, there's, it depends on the kind of domain that you're talking about.
Um, you know, some people talk about, you know, some researchers talk about, still about, not, I, I, I don't think it would necessarily, as, as, as Micah understand, eventually.
But, again, it's sort of that machine hornet's nest of, uh, sort of dissent, you know, but, about English and human, we have our language that we evolve, and all the rationales that go with, all of the things that we do, and you also have the, the, there's English that, you know, it's my opinion that the English is embedded in a lot of, um, a lot of domains.
Uh, you know, when Micah speaks about his topic, or Jeffrey talks about, you know, his topic, or, you know, anyone talks about what they're good at, what they're not knowledgeable about.
They're constantly using language to situate what they know, and to explain what they know, to reason out everything, to connect every idea, you know, perfectly, or, you know, as close to perfect alignment as they can, to be able to make it understandable to somebody else.
So that it can be, it basically turns into, basically, a codification in and of itself, uh, an algorithm in and of itself, and that's the way I like to work in the, in the, in the AI area, is to, is to be able to merge, uh, the directions, the language, the rationales, uh, the how, the why, the cause, the effect.
In fact, all of the, the subtle stuff right down to the unit of where it can't be decomposed any further.
So, I, I would just assume that, you know, based on everything that I've seen on this planet, um, maybe when I go to my other planet, I'll, I'll tell you more.
But, uh, on this planet, at least, um, you know, it seems like there's a mixture of languages going on in our heads.
Um, in addition, not only to the languages, but as Micah would well point out, the, the, and as you pointed out, the substrate, you know, our, our, our brains, as it interfaces with our, our, our brain.
And so, you mix all of that together, the, the, the, the way our brain, um, processes, um, and fires, and connects all of this information.
The information itself, um, then the environment, and so that all could, if you were to be able to create a simulation of everything, all that I'm speaking of,
then you might arrive in some, I think, some sort of universal language that would be computable in a way that is not just standing there, you know, in a, in a sort of machine, but, but actually begins to take on, um, a, a sort of a sentient, autonomous interact with the universe in some deeper way than, than, you know, some simple.
I was in here, I used to always think about, like, de-rendering, like, you know, when you're in a game, and you look away from somewhere, and, uh, completely de-rendered, it's just a, you know, processing, you know, random, something like that, like, energy, and, you know, et cetera, like memory, and then when you look at it again, everything is just boom, like you were just, like, you know what I mean?
Like, how games, and, yeah, and so I was wondering, what about, like, some of the things like that, like, like a mountain, or a valley, or something, and you can kind of see the distance, and far, and, like, fog, and, you know, it's completely, like, I used to think about consciousness.
Because that's when your brain explodes, from what I understand. So I've been experimenting through, with, doing experimentation with the eye, from what I understand. And the way, I, I remember the, um, the Heberman lab, I don't know if you guys are on that podcast, but that's, that's where I learned about the PTO waves.
Yeah, I think I've been using all of the senses.
I, I don't, I do work with a child with first sense, and it's interesting when you, I mean, they used to do experiment, they still do, but, I mean, they, they were doing them more.
A few years ago, where they were taking children into, um, dark rooms, very, very young, three, four month, five month old children, and they would limit all the other stimuli that would darken the room, and then put just colors up, and they would literally just make it so that the child would, um, would not know.
Maybe they would bring children into, who didn't, who clearly had no concept of object permanence, which is Biagé's, um, uh, concept, I mean, his concept, his, his, his, uh, statement that basically children, there's a certain point where they cross this Rubicon,
where they're able to say that they know that something exists, that they, that they, you know, they can begin to point to something, and they actually know, or they, they have a prediction in their mind that, that they've seen it before, or they've seen it in a particular place, and they're going to see it again, uh, that kind of thing.
And so they're trying to, uh, sort of induce that in children, uh, before it actually, so they're sort of accelerating the child's propensity to do that sort of sensing with their eyes, and they find that, you know, Biagé had suggested that some children would take them till, you know, they were maybe, you know, I don't know, 12 months old, 13 months, a certain, a certain number of months before they could get that,
but they're finding that the children were able to, something as early as four months, um, were able to be able to make that jump, uh, to being able to notice patterns, to be able to say that they could actually notice something, that something, you know, actually is, uh, it's like, sort of like forming your first sentence, and it is, it's very conceivable as well, when you're hearing, uh, obviously if you were blind, that, that you could come up with a series of patterns for you, for your perception with the
and the faculties that we have, and that two things can exist at one, the ones that are created with, just say you're in this room and you learn something, right? There's, there's neural pathways that are, that are created, is that due to the proteins?
Um, uh, well, uh, uh, yes, uh, yes, uh, new protein synthesis is, uh, is an essential, uh, component of your brain
and forming new, uh, new pathways in terms of, you know, long-term, long-term memory.
Um, did that answer your question?
Yeah, I mean, it was kind of a vague question.
Can I ask a question?
Absolutely.
In the news before about, are we living in a simulation?
I'm curious, how would one go about determining this realistically?
Well, that's what we're here for.
This is kind of just a group discussion on, um, you know, what it means.
So, I mean, there's a lot of research that you can do, um, in different factors.
I mean, everybody here probably has a little bit of input.
We've been talking now for a couple of hours.
So, if you have any direct questions, we'll take it.
That is my direct question.
Because we've been talking about different forms of different types of simulation, what simulation we're talking about.
That's an important point that Jeffrey raises.
I mean, we're talking, you know, you know, in order to get involved in simulation, we have to talk about in simulating the physical brain,
the chemical aspects of the brain, the physics of the brain, quantum possible, you know, quantum relationships,
the physics of the, of our, of our universe, the way that the mind works, getting into AI, possibly AGI.
You know, you have to be able to simulate, you know, a human type of, uh, um, you know, offspring or something.
And then left, you know, here, uh, you know.
So, what I'm trying to say is, what if another life form gave, you know, birth to the first versions of humans,
and different sorts of humans, and then kind of just left?
I mean, a lot of people have theories of different things watching over us, and some phenomenon happening,
so I'm just kind of letting people feed off of that, even though I don't really believe in it.
Yeah, I'm just putting something out there, yeah.
So, it would be more, like, harvesting our reality than simulating it, then?
I mean, it would be technically simulating, since they're always watching over, and, like, seeing,
and, like, trying to maybe understand how, you know, because there's this phenomenon that, uh,
is actually being studied by scientists, and it's saying that, uh, once civilizations are intelligent,
like, reach a certain sort of intelligence level or something, they just die, something happens,
you know, and they're trying to understand, like, why that happens.
And so, maybe, in theory, in a sandbox, these are what these intelligent life forms are doing,
they're trying to understand, when does intelligent life forms kind of end themselves,
or intelligent civilizations end themselves.
I mean, we're not even at a type one civilization yet, so it's pretty interesting, right?
I mean, a lot of these arguments could also be, like, metaphors for what, you know,
is going on inside people's brains, trying to, you know, like, this whole, this whole,
the simulation hypothesis could be, um, born out of someone's curiosity about, you know,
how this civilization will end, and we're sort of, like, metaphorically mapping that to,
uh, some alien race, but it's just, uh, it's just a reference to some abstract entity inside
someone's mind, I guess, in order to disown their own curiosity.
I'll never forget my year eight science teacher pulled me aside after class and said,
Amanda, I haven't told the student this in a very long time, but I just want to put this
into your brain, and you'll think about it one day.
And I didn't think about it maybe for another five or 10 years when I was a little bit older.
And he said just simply this, what if your existence is just someone else's dream?
And I've never forgotten about it since that day.
And it really, you know, when we ask the question, are we living in a simulation?
I always go back, uh, back to that.
So to give some context for anyone in the audience or maybe up on stage, my interpretation of that
statement he made to me was, say, for example, someone in another place, whether it be on earth
or anywhere else, is falling asleep and dreaming.
Uh, we have quite vivid dreams.
I remember my dreams really well, but what if that's actually someone else's life and you're
dreaming that life into existence or something along those lines?
So still haven't figured it out.
Uh, it definitely changed my life when he implanted that thought into my brain, but I just thought,
uh, tending to the question, are we living in a simulation?
I just wanted to throw another one of my year eight science teachers, uh, mind bending
questions through my way.
That's an interesting perspective of whether the characters that we dream of actually have
agencies within our own dreams.
I like that one.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It got me thinking.
I mean, to your point before, Jeffrey.
To have it stop thinking.
Thanks.
Thanks, Amanda.
That was great.
And to Jeffrey's point before about if you're taking the simulation theory where it's from
the point of origin of the universe to the point of its, whatever the end point is, and
that's the scope of the simulation.
Um, if you think about that as being, you know, incredibly long period of time, but could
potentially be almost a dream state, whether it's hours or, um, or some extraneous, um, being
or extraneous, um, computational, uh, algorithm.
It does, um, it does certainly let me at least think about things like determinism.
I think our ego gets in the way of wanting us to have free will.
But if it, if it is our, uh, us or some, something like us, that's actually created this extended
and very complex, effectively reality movie.
And that's sort of the way that, that I think about it.
If it, if it, if the simulation's like a movie, then it does explain why you could, you
could, you know, if you're the cast of the movie, then, uh, you going about your activities
as though you've got free will, not realizing that the plot's already written and that there's
a deterministic end.
It also explains why, um, there, the passing time seems progressive and linear.
Whereas if you then, if you then collapse that movie down to a file and store it somewhere,
all, all of that time, all of that expanded time in, in that external environment lives
continuously and end to end at one particular point of time.
So back to my earlier point, I think simulation theory at least allows us some analogies to
look at as the thing, David is just kind of setting a new universe.
Um, the only thing to be fast forward from, it's, uh, easily predictable.
Wait, uh, where the theory is that we're in a simulation, but every single life, every
single experience is you, but in a different sort of time period.
Um, and, uh, this is actually a theory that was actually being studied, uh, to, it would
to be, you know, but like, it's, it's kind of like implementing, like imagine every single
version of every single person, you know, me, you, Shane, Jeremy, Julie, everybody in this
chat right now is just me in a different point.
Do you know what I mean?
That's the theory that you are, um, actually creating your reality.
It's like the reality is you, yeah.
Consciousness begins.
People with comas, like, they have this experience of seeing something terrestrial or something
going on in their head and sometimes it actually aligns and people always talk about, uh, like
the fifth dimension and like, um, all the good intentions or things that you want that
you'll receive, so it kind of makes sense a little bit, you know?
It's very Alice Watts.
Yeah, it is very Alice Watts.
I'm not really, um, a fan of that one.
I just think, I, I do think that we are all, uh, coexisting.
Um, and I, I would hate to think that I was creating this entire thing.
I would have to have an imagination that was pretty extreme to create all of the characters
or avatars in my life, um, but, I mean, that is, that has been talked about with the simulation
theory, um, that is one aspect of looking at it.
I just think it's a little narcissistic just to say that, you know.
I mean, I remember, like, I'm sorry, I talked too much to say that again, but I remember I
was younger, I was about 14 years old, and this is around the time that I really did not
want to leave the country, and my parents were taking me outside of the country, right?
And I loved this show, there was this one show, it was called Psych, right?
And I loved it, watched every single episode of it, but I knew going to this different
country, I would not watch it for however long I was there.
And so, six months in, missing my favorite show, one night I was very ill, I had malaria
or something, it was just, I don't remember, but so I fell asleep, and I kid you not, with
all the characters in that show, with all the, you know, special guests and everything,
I created a Christmas special in my dream, all, using all the characters, using different
sorts of plots, even places that I've been to in reality, and by the time that I woke
up, I remembered it all, but it was just like, I, I, it was just crazy, like, I was baffled
because, A, I remembered it out of all of my other dreams, B, I created it, and C, it
was actually good, like, the theme song was there too, and everything, it was just, I
missed the show so much that I recreated it in my mind, in the dream, that was, that still
baffles me.
That's a good subject, how many people in this room have, uh, lucid dreams?
I feel so falling asleep hearing people speaking on Clubhouse, and Clubhouse is definitely not
on, I'm so used to the back chatter that it's, it's actually there in, in my head still,
which is, um, frustrating, but also very funny, and kind of adds to what Em's saying a little
bit as well.
I'm glad you raised that, Em, it's definitely something I've written it down to learn a
little bit more about, but I think it's great to have so many different opinions, and thanks
guys for hosting this space as well, it's bending my mind in all the right ways, so thank
you.
You know, also, I, I, I was just having a thought about the, you know, various different
simulations, and, you know, it just, it's interesting from a perspective of complication, I, I brought
up this idea of what if there was only, you know, so much complication in the universe,
but as well, maybe there are levels to complication, uh, as to what different simulations, um, are capable
of simulating, and that, you know, we look at our reality as humans, and, you know, to some
extent, we communicate one sentence at a time, we're not, we're not thinking, you know, I
mean, we may be able to think, you know, in a few levels at a similar time, um, and sort
of, uh, there's a certain latent processing going on, but in general, when we speak, we're
usually, you know, able to communicate, you know, one statement at a, at a time, we're
able to, you know, generate a certain amount of data in a, in a day, you know, write so many
pages, read so many pages, but, you know, you're one wonders where in different simulations,
with, with different levels of, um, capacity and complexity, if, if, you know, some, in
some, uh, life forms in, in others, you know, again, if this was a simulation, or if there
are these multiple simulations that you can travel between, uh, whether or not some simulations
there, they're literally processing, uh, so x, x times, uh, the amount, you know, that we
are so exponentially more than we are, and you almost wonder where, if there's almost like
an information overload, if there's a, a point where you want to actually get off a simulation,
and have the option to be able to, to move to another simulation, it's actually more human-like,
where you actually have more peace of mind, where there's actually not so much information
going between everyone.
