=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: Eyeballs Picture Dream
First recorded: 2021-10-02T01:21:06.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/e3bca4c0-ae00-4a60-aaf1-71b1485ae898
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Yeah, that was, um, that was something my brain didn't know, I didn't know to expect. Yeah, I was visualizing the graph, the brain graph, and I realized that I, that I, I just wanted to describe this picture, this picture of what it was, this picture of what I was seeing.
Uh, first, and up front, this crazy picture, multiple eyeballs and multiple scales, right? LEDs, right? I want to do this picture up front, so people go, whoa, this is crazy, whoa, this is crazy, whoa!
And then, I show them the science, then I back it up, right? Then I'll be like, yeah, and this is the proof, this is, these are the studies that back up this idea.
Because this was a question that I hadn't asked. This was an unanswered question that I didn't know existed.
What comes first? The explanation, or the research? Because you have to present them in an order. You could present them the research first, and then the explanation.
Or you could present the explanation, and then the research. And it's, it's research-based, it's research-based.
I had this dream when I was a little kid, of being chased down the street by eyeballs.
Uh, of needing to have the superpower from the American superhero show, uh, flying.
So I, I needed to fly so I could get away from the eyeballs.
And so I could save other people from eyeballs. So I could save my family.
And, and, I was supposed to be the superhero who would save the world from these eyeballs.
But these eyeballs, they were so scary.
Because they would pop out of someone.
And they would pop into someone else.
And, and later on I began to, and, and, and they would grow, like if they touched you,
they would grow out of your skin where they touched you.
Right?
And I, and I, I had this dream when I was, uh, in elementary school.
In elementary school.
I must, I, it was a very young age.
But the dream haunted me, like, for years.
And I've had so many, um, memoriable nightmares over the years that I,
I've really begun to enjoy all the different crazy nightmares that I have, had, have had.
And, and, you know, the eyeball one is really special.
I mean, there was one where I, I saw, later on I saw, well, that was actually maybe, uh,
a reflection of, an early idea of, of me experiencing how I was different, how I was autistic.
How other people's eyes, uh, was, other people seeing, uh, was an, it was a, a point of anxiety for me.
And so eyeballs were problematic.
In another dream, there was one where people had metal masks covering their faces.
My sister and my dad had a metal mask that covered their face and prevented them from being communicated with by, uh, by me.
And, and at that point, they were, like, scary robotic things.
Right?
Like the, like the, I guess the modern idea would be, like, the Borg.
They became, like, the Borg, cyborgs or something.
Before I hadn't any idea of, of science fiction.
I mean, this is, like, super primitive early imaging in my, uh, mind when I was a, a child.
And, and, so I, so, and then, you know, over, we had this, uh, uh, the, the Eye of the Beholder was this, uh, was this demon in Dungeons & Dragons that really, um, caught my attention for that, for that reason.
And it was a monster basically covered with eyeballs.
And, so I got really into Dungeons & Dragons and the Dragonlance books and the books of Margaret Weiss and Tracy Hickman and Fantasy.
It was a, it was a good, um, you know, from before, before I was doing that, I was, uh, raised in a, uh...
I was, uh, uh, kind of about it.
