=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: Infinite labor and ressurection
First recorded: 2021-10-18T01:14:58.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/dfe9c73f-c7f4-4f31-9b8e-62d802192b12
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
I'm widely respected. I'm well-known. I'm a legend. I'm a living legend. I'm famous. I'm widely respected. I'm widely liked. I've contact with many of the biggest names in the world, with many of the most influential people.
I get to talk to the leaders of organizations, large and small, the leaders of countries, large and small. The whole spectrum of high-level thinkers, it's just wonderful to, you know, I actually, like, I know this is weird, but, like, I know a lot of celebrities personally.
Like, a lot of famous people, a lot of famous authors. I get to meet people you just, you wouldn't believe. I just, some of the stories have to obviously remain private because your life is private, but I just, I've had so many wonderful encounters with so many wonderful people.
Um, it seems like, you know, someday, like, it should be, like, I should, this should be, like, in a memoir that I put in a time capsule so that 500 years from now, you know, we can, we can, these stories can come out about, you know, the things these people did together.
I mean, um, for another generation of folks. Um, but for now, like, this is not stuff I can share with this generation of folks, but it's just really wonderful experiences with some of the most interesting and intelligent people on the planet.
Um, you wouldn't believe the people I spent time with. I mean, I just, I am just loving my life and I'm loving existence. I'm loving being alive and being part of the world with all of you.
I mean, I'm thankful, I'm thankful that people are so excited about the opportunities, um, that the, the, the, um, that we can all share, uh, in the future as we advance towards, um, a world where there's a limitless amount of labor, uh, for, for every kind of task, for every kind of job.
Um, and we can do so much. There's so much we can do when there's, when there's basically infinite labor, um, right?
When we can just, uh, and, and, and also the, the advances that, that the world will have in terms of, um, you know, medical technology and, and being able to back up ourselves, uh, being able to, um, 3D print ourselves.
You know, we could print a duplicate of ourselves or, not that you would want to do that, but I mean, just saying like you, you could, if you needed to, uh, if your body was incinerated or something, then, um, maybe you could have another version of yourself, uh, printed, um, via a contract you made before your body was incinerated.
So, so, so essentially your agenda would continue in, in, um, in a being that had all of your, your memories and thoughts and feelings, uh, from that point.
It would be like, um, uh, it would be like a new life, but it, but another, but another version of you that's very much, very much similar to the original.
Um, and that, that version of you would carry on.
So, um, yeah, so basically beings could be resurrected.
Um.
