=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: Sentient Crops, Crime, Cog dev,
First recorded: 2021-10-18T01:08:36.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/de7d3091-90e6-4f55-92bc-69728a55ca05
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Imagine that you are a farmer and you're growing sentient crops, or basically, yeah, you're running a computer program, you create a computer program, and it generates a universe, and then people start growing on it, and animals, people and animals, and trees, and the way they see reality is just like, they have their own existence.
They're like, they're like, you had your existence, and they have their own existence. They have their own, they're unto themselves. Each one of them has, is creating his or her own universe in their heads.
Basically, each and every brain is simulating the universe. All of them together are collectively simulating the universe.
They're, they're, they're, um, they're oscillating together and trading signals, right? So they're, it's like a bunch of, it's like imagine that people are fireflies floating in space.
Just computers floating in space. Just computers floating in space. And their, and their brains are, each creating realities, and those realities are, um, sending signals to one another.
Like, like, signals are going in between human brains, and in between animal brains. Never mind that humans are primates, and technically animals, according to the classification, genetically speaking.
Where you have a lot in common, humans have a lot in common with, with, uh, other primates, and other species.
So you're a farmer, and you're growing sentient crops, and, and you don't want your crops to murder each other, right?
You want your crops to thrive and grow. I mean, you're trying to grow crops, right?
You want your crops to, to, to, to, to grow. They're sentient crops. You don't want them to kill each other.
Let's grow the crops. Grow the minds. Grow the, grow the, grow the mental, um, farm, right?
So you want to grow the matrix. We need more people to be alive. We don't want the numbers to be reduced.
So, we come up with some rules. The first rule is don't kill each other, because that is not the outcome we want.
And the second rule is, uh, don't lie, because we found, um, after a lot of data analysis, we found out that
one of the things that comes up a lot in murder cases is that the person who, uh, the, the situation before the murder happened
was that there was a lie that happened. So lies tend to precede murders, so don't lie.
Um, we've also noticed that, um, in a lot of murder cases, there were, were situations of adultery.
Um, usually, um, adultery is something that is an event that precedes a murder.
And, uh, if, if adulteries don't happen, it would be harder for murders to happen.
Okay. So don't commit adultery. Um, don't, uh, honor, you gotta, you need to honor your, your parents
and your community and your, your, um, and the seniors of your community and your tribe
because you don't, you, you want to honor your father and mother and their connections and their network
because you don't want them, your parents, or anyone else in the community to kill you, right?
Okay. So honor other people so they don't kill you.
Because we've noticed that when people dishonor each other, that's one of the things that seems
to come up a lot in, um, as events that precede murders. So, um, honor, honor each other, honor
your parents. You may not, you, you, you don't, uh, you're not, you're not likely to understand
them, uh, and their, uh, their perspective on life because you don't know what you're
going to go through on, on the way from the age you are now to the age your parents, your
parents are now. You don't know what that's going to be, how many transformations you're
going to go through in terms of how you understand everything.
We can argue that human beings go through, um, uh, many, many stages of a multi-dimensional
developmental path or many developmental paths. Like we have, it's like each of our developmental
paths in it along given, given, uh, power band of topics is, um, you know, you see, you see
power, when I say power band of topics, I mean like, you see topics, you know, you can
see that there's like, there are people who are basically at the eighth grade reading level
who are, who call themselves Republicans and conservatives and they, they share so many
lies with each other and like they brainwash each other with, um, misinformation and wrong
information. And, and it's just this, uh, it's built on poor research and, uh, propaganda
and, you know, government propaganda trying to, trying to, trying to change, uh, the, the
ideas of a large group of people all at once. Right. And then, you know, so what's interesting
is that the, um, you know, the, the, that, that's the perspective of like, yeah, if I'm a farmer
and I'm trying to grow the population of the world and I want my crops to, um, treat each other
right.
