=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: y0004 time crystal
First recorded: 2022-10-17T05:57:19.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/f4b2bc0d-9383-46b8-8fb4-74b29f0ebb9f
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
We are the information complexity of time.
It's like, imagine that time is a wave in the ocean, and that's the idea, is that between certain frequencies of the universe, time exists.
And the universe is like a crystal, in that there are areas of the universe where time doesn't exist, and areas where it does.
And so, it's like we are, imagine a, two, imagine two barrels with spikes or something, and the point of this is that they rotate to grind whatever you put in between them.
So they're like, metal spikes on barrels, and anything you put on them, they'll grind up.
So it's a grinding, grinding device.
Grinding machine.
And, um, imagine that, that's symbolic of entropy, right?
And then, and then, so like entropy is like grinding up everything.
But at, at the quantum scale.
Right?
It's like this, everything is sort of dissolving.
But, um, at the same time,
there are these patterns that are evolving.
They're sort of like, the things that are in the grinder,
they're like,
that's where time exists.
Because those things are moving around.
Right?
It's like there's this, um, change happening.
Like there's the, there's this, there's this, there's, um, there's order,
entropy, entropy, sorry, extropy, order, that's increasing over time, that's evolving.
There are oscillations.
This is a, it's a harmonic system.
And also, there's oscillatory patterns that persist, and they are evolving.
And they're evolving, um, in part because they're, because they're, um, because they're patterns
that formed in order to escape, uh, dissolution.
So they're like, um, patterns that, that, uh, that evolve because they were the most, they're
the most resistant to dissolving, to being dissolved.
It's like, um, the selection of things was in a direction that preserved, um, the development
of life from physics.
But this is like a fractal of oscillation.
It's a fractal pattern of oscillation.
Um, so it's, it is, uh, there's like a, um, there's a structural balance to it, to the
universe.
Let's see, it feels like, at least at the moment.
