=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: y0016 why this book is important now
First recorded: 2022-07-21T05:01:50.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/08e17550-646d-4b62-a8a5-ca8cb74fc3c2
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Another important point to make is that once you put the first robot out there, right, so there's two things, once people know that these robots are possible, it's easy to put together, like, sort of like there's a mental barrier, like, this was Ben Lang who said this to me, that if you know that sentient self-aware robots work, then people will work towards inventing them.
Like, they'll work towards reverse engineering them.
Like, if you know something is possible, someone will build it.
And so, the suggestion was that, well, wait a second, then, well, maybe we shouldn't talk about it if we know it's possible.
But everyone knows it's possible if they've been, like, if they're realists, if they're realists, and if they've seen science fiction movies, and if they understand biology, and, and, uh,
if you really understand biology and computation, and, and you've seen a couple of science fiction movies, then you understand that it's, that it's possible.
So that, so that is a sort of, like, the people who are dumb enough to think that it was not possible, uh, you know, that's a minority, right?
And, um, the thing is, so there's already, like, people already, like, basically, I was trying to reverse engineer what I deduced was possible.
And that's how I got to sentient self-aware networks.
Um, but the next thing is that, uh, you know, if this, so, yeah, so if, if this wasn't revealed to everybody, then someone could have been developing this in secret.
And if someone, if someone, um, tried to put the kibosh on this, to, like, oh, yeah, well, that means that they may not have developed this, um, and, so the world would be unprepared for it.
Uh, if someone developed it in secret, and then secretly took over things.
So bringing it out into the open, making it accessible, uh, was part of, like, um, preventing it being, uh, abused by, like, what if I had given it to an FBI agent, and then instead of turning it over to the president, they decided to, to, um, to take over the world, right?
Like, I don't know, it's like, it's like, it's like, imagine it's a gold rush.
And if someone, if someone decides to, to use it for selfish gain, you know, and, and so that's like a, that's like an existential risk.
As long as I'm the only person who has this technology, then, then I'm a bigger target than I, than if everybody has this technology.
But if, if, if the thing is, like, once this technology, now, if you want to use this technology, and we need to use this technology to, to solve the biggest problems that are in the world, like housing and, and climate change and, and pollution, we need to use this technology to, uh, to solve those major problems.
It's poverty and, and, and, and, uh, you know, the legal system.
This technology will help solve the biggest problems that Earth is facing.
It will put us into, basically, what we used to think of as a science fiction movie is now going to be the ordinary reality, uh, of people born from now on.
And life is basically, for, for, for the people who were born today, it's like, it's like going to live in a science fiction movie.
For the people born tomorrow, it will be, um, like, they, it'll be like they were, like, that's the, like, the science fiction, the movie that science fictioned us would be just normal for them.
Because it's kind of like, um, like, it's, it's like the way that our cell phones are normal for us, but for a hundred years ago, they would have been science fiction, they would have been mind-bogglingly science fiction-like to the people back then, a hundred years ago.
So that, so, so, so, yeah, I say, I say, yeah, we're in a science fiction movie, but this, but for the next generation of folks that are born, uh, this will be really ordinary.
Uh, but the weird, it'll be weird for this generation of folks who are alive now, whose lives are going to extend over 100,000 years, um, if that's what they choose, it will be, um, uh, you know, possibly millions of years.
You might live for millions of years.
Um, and, uh, these, this is what's possible with the technology that we're going to have.
So it'll be a little weird for the current generation of folks.
Uh, but for the next generation of folks, it will be the ordinary thing.
So, so, don't, like, when you, when you think, oh my god, I can't deal with all this surprise, it's so freaking amazing.
I don't understand what, what this, this is, you know, what, what all this change means.
Um, right, um, then, uh, then, that's because you're an old, you're an, you're an oldie.
But the next generation will get it, okay?
You're just, you're just like the current gen.
And you're going to live for a long time, it's going to be weird for you to get at, to, to, uh, to adjust this change in reality.
But it's no, it's really no different from a major technological innovation.
Uh, and in the past, humanity has gone through major, many major technological innovation periods that radically changed how society worked.
Um, you know, there was, in, in Mexico, I heard this story, I wasn't there, but I heard a story that, that, you know, um, as, as soon as they started playing MTV, MTV music videos on, on, in Mexico, their entire culture changed overnight.
It went from being, uh, pre-MTV culture to being post-MTV culture.
And the music videos that were exported from the United States all over the world changed the world.
Not just in Mexico, but around the world.
And so, um, you know, European music influenced the entire world.
Uh, music from everywhere is influencing the world everywhere.
Like now, and, and, and, and it's not just American exports.
Of course, music from other, from every country influences every other country.
Like the, the music from Ukraine is, is different.
It's, it's different than what I'm used to.
But it's, it's, uh, that music is influencing our, influencing our culture.
It's changing us.
It's, it's, um, every culture is influencing every other culture.
Right?
Right?
It's a good place.
