=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: y0013 Self Aware Networks Institute Facility Plans
First recorded: 2022-08-25T20:54:22.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/ef41a543-5993-4281-a12c-55f29f9785b6
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
My dream is to build a massive facility, a physical facility, maybe multiple facilities, but in my dream I imagine this would be a cliffside, like a square building with dark glass that just, you know, maybe, I don't know if it has five stories or 50 stories, I just imagine the big building in a beautiful place, like the cliffs in the movie Gattaca.
The idea is that this is a world-class facility that invites, that brings together hundreds, maybe even thousands of people, I don't know, but brings together hundreds of people to work on creating, maintaining, and building robots for every country in the world.
For every industry, to do every type of job, but they're engineered to fill in needs that people have, right?
They're not designed to take jobs away from people, they're designed to help people to do more, to accomplish more with the jobs that they have.
In some cases, in a lot of situations, governments have big gaps in terms of what they can do in one area because they don't have the manpower, or they don't have the, you know what I mean?
Like, governments have strengths in some areas, in terms of what their populations are able to do, and so there's a lot of, that's a big value in terms of trade, in terms of like, well, one country produces a surplus of, another country produces a deficit of, and via trade, things can be worked out.
Well, that's the same kind of, well, that's the same kind of idea with the robots, is that it's trade exponentiated, wherein, you know, if you have, if you have an economy, but you don't have enough people coming in to your industry,
or if you want to grow your economy, or if you want to grow your economy, these robots will provide the flexibility for, basically the same kinds of advantages of trade, but much more flexibility than trade.
And, but they're also need, they need to, they need to, the robots need to be maintained, and updated, and safety protocols need to exist, and so you can have, you know, robots to address every issue that mankind faces, you can have robots to help with,
you know, you know, they can be, they can, they can be security guards that escort people, very inexpensive security guards, that can make sure that people are safe.
That's one, that's one possibility. They can be workers at a construction site, in a, in a place where you don't have enough construction workers.
They can be, they can be, and, and so on. They're like, whatever, whatever, uh, humanity in one area can't provide, the robots can fill in the gaps.
And in, in, in some cases, um, let's say that you, you, you have, everyone, let's say that everyone's employed, uh, and, uh, but you want to be able to do more.
So, so, so the workers, the robot workers, could have jobs where they help the people who are employed to do more, right?
It's like they, it's like you have, you have helpers with your job. You have, you can do, you can accomplish three times as much in your workday with these robots.
And so that's really the point, is that this giant facility, the physical facility, will bring people together and robots together.
We have, uh, we have robots working there at some point. And, uh, some point, quickly.
But they'll help manage, uh, the robots, uh, globally.
And that's the idea of the self-aware network's physical facility.
But then in addition to that, it's a virtual facility.
So the interactions, so people from around the world, so there can be satellite facilities, uh, around the world for people and robots to visit.
But the, um, but the idea is that, uh, all the facilities worldwide would be connected in the metaverse.
Right? Okay.
See you.
