=== TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Recording name: y0023 Neuropathways
First recorded: 2022-12-13T19:20:06.000000Z
Recording-date evidence: Embedded M4A creation_time metadata
Original Google Recorder recording: https://recorder.google.com/38a720c5-a6a9-4d91-b1c0-c872a5c7ab8d
Transcript method: openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo (int8); verify against audio before quotation or publication.
=== END TRANSCRIPT PROVENANCE ===
Following up on the last recording, I guess I'm having the Buddhist awakening moment because, in a sense, realizing that the rendered pattern of brainwave oscillations,
the rendered pattern of signals produced by brainwave oscillations and the neural pathways, and the neural pathways that shape those oscillations are changing the oscillations of space to produce this differential.
And so the existence of this person is a differential produced by the neural pathways that are defined by, and part of, and, like, each interval of these signals are, in fact, changing the brain of the person.
It is, it's, um, I'm not just, identity is, um, for this person, but, in a social context, like, I am this person for dialogue purposes, for coordination purposes, but, the, I am is, this, um, is transcendent.
And, and, and, it's every I am, and it's even, and even when I'm not, that's, that's, it is, the I am is not, um, is still I am.
The I am that is not is still I am.
Uh, so, even when I'm not here, that thing that is not here is still what this is.
Um, if that doesn't make any sense, but I'm saying, like, even when this, that I am, is not here, what this is, when this is here, is that which is here, when I'm not here.
And so, in that Buddhist sense, I'm realizing the oneness of being one with, with, with everything else.
Um, um, but it's, uh, it is, uh, a sense of my neural pathways are, um, one with the universe, intellectually speaking.
It's, uh, rationally speaking.
And, at that point, is connecting, um, it's an, it is an, it's an intellectual realization.
But, it's describing an experiential realization.
But, I'm, like, experiencing it, because I'm, uh, in terms of, like, understanding, um, what this is.
But, the experience itself, but, the experience itself is beyond my, under, it's beyond my, it's, like, the experience of space is beyond the differences that define this person.
